CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3384 BUL
(Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 22, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3384 BUL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has contracted and intends to further contract from European 
Community (EC) grants to support its economic development programs and has agreed with 
the EC to allocate out of the proceeds of said grants an amount equivalent to about 
$13,000,000 (the EC Grant) to assist in financing the Project, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in agreements (the EC Grant Agreements) entered, or to be 
entered, into between the Borrower and EC;
(C)
the Know How Fund for Eastern Europe established by the Government of the 
United Kingdom has agreed to assist the Borrower in financing the Project through the 
provision of advisory and expert services required for the carrying out of the 
Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3, of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"PCC" means the Project Coordinating Committee established by the Council 
of Ministers of the Borrower pursuant to a Protocol Decision dated June 10, 1991;
(b)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
 
(d)
"BNB" means the Bulgarian National Bank;
 
(e)
"MITS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry, Trade and Services;
 
(f)
"MESS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Employment and Social Security;
 
(g)
"MSHE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Science and Higher Education;
 
(h)
"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
 
(i)
"MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;
 
(j)
"MFER" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations;
 
(k)
"AEPD" means the Borrower’s Agency for Economic Programming and 
Development established within the Borrower’s Council of Ministers pursuant to Decree 
No. 79 issued by the Council of Ministers on May 3, 1991;
(l)
"CNA" means the Borrower’s Council of Normative Acts established pursuant 
to Protocol No. 2 issued by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers on January 5, 1991;
(m)
"PA" means the Borrower’s Privatization Agency established pursuant to 
Decree No. 16 issued by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers on February 8, 1991;
(n)
"Committee on Energy" means the Committee established pursuant to 
Ordinance No. 2604 issued by the State Council of the Borrower on November 22, 1989;
(o)
"DMC" means the Debt Management Committee, an interministerial committee, 
established pursuant to Decision No. 4 issued by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers 
of January 16, 1991;
(p)
"CSO" means the Borrower’s Central Statistics Office established by 
Ordinance No. 626 issued by the State Council of the Borrower on February 25, 1986;
(q)
"Bulgargas" means the Borrower’s state enterprise reponsible for the 
procurement, sale and distribution of natural gas established pursuant to Court 
Registration No. 115, dated March 15, 1990, in the City Court of Sofia;
(r)
"Project Agencies" means, collectively, the ministries and entities 
referred to in paragraphs (b) through (q) of this Section; and
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seventeen million dollars 
($17,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
the Bulgarian National Bank a special deposit account in dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out, through the respective Project 
Agencies in accordance with the provision of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of overall administration of the activities to 
be carried out under the Project and the procurement of goods and services required 
therefor, the Borrower
shall establish, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, within MOF a 
project implementation unit, to be assisted by a qualified and experienced project 
implementation advisor, with such powers, responsibilities, functions and staff as 
shall be necessary for the proper execution of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain the PCC 
with such composition and functions as shall ensure the proper overall coordination in 
the carrying out of the Project. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1991: (a) for the 
purpose of overseeing the design and development of the strategy for privatization of 
state enterprises referred to under Part A (1) of the Project, establish and 
thereafter maintain a steering group under the chairmanship of a Deputy Prime Minister 
which shall include among its members the Ministers of MOF and MITS and the President 
of PA; and (b) for the purpose of overseeing the carrying out of Part A (5) of the 
Project, establish and thereafter maintain within MITS a steering group which shall 
include representatives of concerned ministries and agencies of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the Project Agencies and other departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year, audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a)
subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; and
(b)
paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or termination 
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank that the EC Grant has been allocated for the purposes of the Project and that 
all conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds thereof 
have been fulfilled; and
(b)
the PIU shall have been established pursuant to the provisions of Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement and the project implementation advisor referred to therein 
shall have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
102 Rakovski Street
Sofia 1040
Republic of Bulgaria
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
22727
Sofia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
By /s/ Ivan Kostov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods                    1,800,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)  Consultants’             9,400,000         100% of foreign
     Services                                   expenditures
(3)  Training                 1,200,000         100%
(4)  Unallocated              4,600,000
                             __________
         TOTAL               17,000,000
                             ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower’s institutions and 
agencies responsible for the carrying out of the Borrower’s stabilization and 
structural reform programs and to provide the necessary technical support and training 
required for that purpose.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Private Sector Development; Enterprise Privatization and Restructuring
(1)
The design and development of a strategy for the privatization of state 
enterprises.
(2)
The development of guidelines for the operations of PA and implementation of a 
program defining the structure, staffing needs and budgetary requirements of PA.
(3)
The carrying out of a limited number of operations of privatization of state 
enterprises, and the development of plans for the management of privatization 
operations falling outside the jurisdiction of PA.
(4)
The provision of training to the staff of PA and other concerned agencies and of 
equipment needed for the operations of PA.
(5)
The development and implementation of a legal and organizational framework for 
state enterprises and the definition of the structure of their management, and the 
development of reporting and performance monitoring systems applicable to their 
operations.
(6)
The development of a strategy, and an implementation program thereunder, for the 
privatization and restructuring of industrial enterprises, and the preparation of 
restructuring
programs for at least three industrial subsectors and five industrial enterprises to 
be selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
(7)
The establishment of a legal and institutional framework for business activities 
comprising legislation and regulations governing, inter alia, property, corporations, 
competition, bankruptcy and public procurement, the provision of legal advisory 
services and legal training, the  establishment of a legal reference library and the 
provision of equipment necessary for the foregoing.
(8)
The development and introduction of a modern accounting and auditing system, the 
carrying out of a program for the development of the accounting and auditing 
profession and the provision of training and study tours.
Part B:
Bank Restructuring and Reform
 
(1)
The carrying out of a study of the structural issues pertaining to the 
Borrower’s banking system.
(2)
The carrying out of diagnostic and institutional development studies of selected 
banks.
(3)
The provision of advisory services to the Banking Supervision Department of BNB 
for the purposes of auditing banks’ loan portfolios and training bank inspectors.
(4)
The provision of advisory services to support banks’ management.
 
(5)
The carrying out of a feasibility study for the establishment of an institute 
for the training of bankers, and the provision of training to the staff of banks.
(6)
The design and development of a modern payments clearing system.
 
Part C:
Human Resources Development
 
(1)
The design and development of a program for the strengthening and modernization 
of the Borrower’s social security system, the provision of training and fellowships to 
the staff responsible for said system and the provision of equipment.
(2)
The design and development of a program for the reform of the Borrower’s social 
welfare system, including the carrying out of a review of pertinent legislation, the 
establishment of
social indicators and the improvement of social workers’ training.
(3)
The design and development of a program to remove impediments to the performance 
of the education sector, including the development of an achievement measurement 
system, the carrying
out of student tracer studies, the development of proposals for system management, 
standard-setting, teacher-training, school design and construction techniques, foreign 
language
teaching and book development and the formulation of plans for the improvement of the 
management and funding practices of educational and scientific research institutions.
(4)
The design and development of a program for the improvement of the management of 
the health system at the national and regional levels, the provision of training and 
the development of a system for comprehensive health screening procedures and the 
provision of equipment required for the carrying out of such screening procedures.
(5)
The design, development and implementation of a program to strengthen employment 
services and small business development, including the carrying out of necessary 
studies, and the provision of data processing equipment to support a modern labor 
market information system.
(6)
The design and development of a program for management of training systems, the 
carrying out of study tours, the establishment and equipping of a model regional 
training center.
Part D:
Energy
 
The carrying out of studies of the power generation sector, the potential for 
expansion of the use of gas and of the safety and environmental aspects of the use of 
nuclear power.
Part E:
Institutional Development
 
The provision of advisory services and assistance to the Borrower’s ministries 
and agencies in areas critical to the Borrower’s economic reform programs consisting 
of:
(1)
The provision of advisory services and equipment to MFER for the carrying out of 
a comprehensive review of the trade policy regime.
(2)
The provision of advisory and expert services to support MOF in the areas of 
domestic debt management, tax control, government audit, accounting and management of 
MOF and other areas,
relevant to MOF’s responsibilities, selected in agreement with the Bank.
(3)
The provision of advisory services and equipment to AEPD to support 
macro-economic policy development.
(4)
The provision of advisory services to assist DMC in the development of a debt 
strategy.
(5)
The carrying out of a study to assess the needs of CSO for computer hardware and 
software, and based on the findings and recommendations of said study, the provision 
of recommended hardware
and software.
Part F:
Project Implementation
 
The provision of advisory services to the PIU for the purposes of Project 
implementation.
Responsibility for the execution of the various components of the Project shall 
be assigned to the respective Project Agencies as set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Agencies Responsible for
Execution of the Project
                        Project Component             Agency
Part A (1)              Privatization of state        Council of
                        enterprises                   Ministers
Part A (2),             Privatization of state        PA
(3) and (4)             enterprises
Part A (5)              State enterprise              MITS/MOF
                        management
Part A (6)              Restructuring of industrial   MITS
                        enterprises
Part A (7)              Development of legal          CNA
                        framework for business
                        activity
Part A (8)              Accounting and auditing       MOF
Part B                  Bank restructuring            BNB
                        and reform
Part C (1) and          Social security and           MESS
(2)                     welfare
Part C (3)              Education                     ME/MSHE
Part C (4)              Health                        MOH
Part C (5)              Employment services           MESS
Part C (6)              Training                      MESS
Part D                  Energy                        Committee on
                                                      Energy/
                                                      Bulgargas
Part E (1)              Trade policy regime           MFER
Part E (2)              Advisory services             MOF
Part E (3)              Support for macro-            AEPD
                        economic policy
                        development
Part E (4)              Debt strategy                 DMC/MFER
Part E (5)              Statistical support           CSO
Part F                  Project implementation        PIU/MOF
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1997
through March 15, 2008
710,000
 
On September 15, 2008
670,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, computer equipment shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for computer equipment shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Bulgaria may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$50,000 but less than $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Items or group of items estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may 
be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and finalcontracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
