                                                 CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3335 PAK
               (Karachi Port Modernization Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated November 27, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3335 PAK
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 27,  1991, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will  be  carried  out  by  the Karachi Port
Trust (KPT) of the  Borrower,  with the Borrower’s assistance and,
as part of such  assistance,  the  Borrower will make available to
the Karachi Port Trust  the  proceeds  of  the Loan as provided in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreement of even date herewith  between  the Bank and the Karachi
Port Trust;
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below  (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  In Section  6.02,  sub-paragraph  (k)  is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
     which  any  further  withdrawals  under  the  Loan  would  be
     inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
     the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and KPT of even date  herewith,  as  the  same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and KPT pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary  Loan" means the loan provided
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by  the  Bank to the Borrower pursuant
to two exchanges of letters, the first dated November 22, 1988 and
December 6, 1988, and the  second  dated  May 24, 1991 and Septem-
ber 2, 1991, between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (e)  "Investment Program" means  KPT’s  Investment Program as
approved by its Board on April 1, 1991; and
     (f)  "FY" means  any  of  KPT’s  fiscal  years,  covering the
period from  July  1  in  any  calendar  year  to  June  30 of the
following calendar year.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that  shall  have an aggregate value
equivalent  to  the  amount  of  ninety-one  million  four hundred
thousand dollars ($91,400,000),  being  the  sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with  each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on terms and  conditions  satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection  against  set-off,  seizure  or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the  Effective  Date,  the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required  to  repay  the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn  and  outstanding as of such
date and  to  pay  all  unpaid  charges  thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on  the  date   immediately   preceding  each  date
               specified  in  Section   2.06  of  this  Agreement,
               beginning with the  Interest  Period  in which this
               Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank’s
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a) The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on the
             principal   amount   of   the   Loan   withdrawn  and
             outstanding from time  to  time,  at  a rate for each
             Quarter equal  to  the  Cost  of Qualified Borrowings
             determined in respect of  the preceding Quarter, plus
             one-half of one percent (1/2  of  1%). On each of the
             dates specified in  Section  2.06  of this Agreement,
             the  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  accrued  on  the
             principal  amount  outstanding  during  the preceding
             Interest Period, calculated  at  the rates applicable
             during such Interest Period."
                  "(b) As soon  as  practicable  after  the end of
             each Quarter, the Bank  shall  notify the Borrower of
             the  Cost  of   Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in
             respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’  means a three-month period
             commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
             in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.08.  The   Chairman   of   KPT  is  designated  as
representative of the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause KPT to  perform  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the  obligations  of  KPT therein set forth,
shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary  or  appropriate   to   enable   KPT   to  perform  such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The  Borrower  shall  (i)  make  available  to  KPT  for
purposes of Part A.3  of  the  Project,  the  proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to  said Part of the Project, and (ii)
relend the remaining of the proceeds  of  the Loan to KPT, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and KPT under terms and  conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank, including  provisions  whereby  KPT  shall: (A) pay a
charge  on  the  amount  of  the  Subsidiary  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding at a floating annual rate adjusted every six months so
as to be equal to  the  interest  rate  applicable, at the time of
each such adjustment, to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this
Agreement, plus a spread  at  the  prevailing  rate charged by the
State Bank of Pakistan for  its coverage of foreign exchange risk;
and (B) repay the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan over a period of
20 years, including 5 years of  grace, the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan to  be  repaid  being  the  equivalent in terms of
rupees of the currency  or  currencies  withdrawn  by KPT from the
Loan  Account,  such  equivalent  to   be  determined  as  of  the
respective dates of withdrawal.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  The  Borrower  shall,  to  the  extent that it
exercises control over the setting  of  tariffs by KPT: (i) enable
KPT to establish such  tariffs  at  a  level which would allow KPT
under conditions of efficient  operation  and at reasonable levels
of capacity utilization,  to  cover  its operating costs including
taxes, earn an adequate return  on funds invested in its operation
and meet its  financial  obligations  under the Project Agreement;
(ii) review with the Bank, in conjunction with KPT, by March 31 of
each year, the ability of  KPT  to meet the requirements stated in
sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph for the following fiscal year;
and (iii) introduce, on the basis of such review, such adjustments
to KPT’s tariffs as shall be required to meet such requirements.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land  acquisition,  respectively) shall be carried
out by KPT pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause  to  be maintained in accordance
                with  sound  accounting   practices,  records  and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   ensure  that   all   records  (contracts,  orders,
                invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
                least one year  after  the  Bank  has received the
                audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)   enable the Bank’s  representatives to examine such
                records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to in
                paragraph (a) (i)  of  this  Section and those for
                the Special Account for  each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently  applied,   by  independent  auditors
                acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank  as  soon as available, but in
                any case not later  than  six months after the end
                of each such year the report of such audit by said
                auditors, of such scope and  in such detail as the
                Bank shall have  reasonably requested, including a
                separate opinion by  said  auditors  as to whether
                the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted during
                such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                internal controls  involved  in their preparation,
                can  be  relied   upon   to  support  the  related
                withdrawals; and
        (iii)   furnish  to  the   Bank   such  other  information
                concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time
                reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  KPT shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that  KPT will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of KPT or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                       ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and KPT; and
     (b)  KPT has designated  a  qualified  Deputy Manager for the
committee and task  forces  referred  to  in  Part  A.2 (a) (i) of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project  Agreement  has been duly authorized or
ratified by KPT, and  is  legally  binding  upon KPT in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  KPT and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and KPT in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.08 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to  the  Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary  or  Section  Officer  in  that  Division  of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
             Economic                            ECDIV-05-634
             Pakistan
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                    By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Works:
     (a)  under              18,800,000         77%
          Part A(1)
          and (2) of
          the Project
     (b)  under              25,400,000         58%
          Part A(3) of
          the Project
(2)  Equipment and           25,900,000         100% of foreign
     spare parts                                expenditures and
     under Part B                               100% of local
     of the Project                             expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
(3)  Consultants’             6,800,000         100% of foreign
     services and                               expenditures
     training
(4)  Refunding of             1,500,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)  Unallocated             13,000,000
          TOTAL              91,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $3,500,000 in  respect  of  Category  (1)  (a)  and $600,000 in
respect of Category (3), may  be  made in respect of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after September 30, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  (1)  assist in the
development of an appropriate strategy for the port subsector; (2)
increase the  efficiency  of  cargo  handling  and  clearance; (3)
expand liquid  cargo  handling  facilities;  and  (4) increase the
effectiveness of port organization and management.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Works
1.   Construction of a new oil terminal consisting of two berthing
dolphins  and  four   mooring   dolphins,  together  with  related
structure and service facilities.
2.   Reconstruction of the crane  pier  and the outfitting pier at
Manora.
3.   Construction of a roundabout with a flyover and, if required,
an overpass to improve land access to the port.
4.   Reconstruction of about 8 quay side aprons.
5.   Construction of an access road to Keamari Groyne.
Part B:   Equipment
1.   Provision of: (i)  a  non-propelled  bucket chain dredger and
two hopper barges;  (ii)  environmental  protection equipment; and
(iii) spare parts for port equipment.
2.   Provision and installation,  on  the  basis  of a feasibility
study, of a radar with  a  range  of about 24 miles, together with
associated equipment, for improving  navigation and for control of
the outer anchorage.
Part C:   Institutional Development; Studies
1.   (a)  The  implementation  of   measures   to  strengthen  the
management of KPT, including  restructuring of its computer center
and  finance   division,   improving   its  environmental  control
procedures,  creation  of  a  marketing  unit  in  its  operations
division, strengthening its security unit and provision of related
equipment.
     (b)  Training, with the assistance of experts, of KPT’s staff
in the operation and  maintenance  of equipment provided under the
Project and in the use  of  computers,  and in marketing and other
port related activities.
2.   The preparation and implementation of a program to facilitate
the movement of  cargo,  including  measures  for  reform of trade
documents  and  procedures,  installation  of  an  electronic data
inter-change system, assistance in the computerization of customs’
procedures and in the coordination  of actions by parties involved
in port traffic.
3.   Studies relating  to  (i)  second  stage  computerization and
institutional  strengthening  of  KPT;  (ii)  master  planning for
Karachi  Port,  dredging,  navigational  aids,  radar  and traffic
system,  (iii)   environmental   protection,   and   (iv)  further
improvement  of  general  and   bulk  cargo  handling  operations,
including  encouragement   of   private   participation   in  such
operations.
4.   Technical  assistance  for  KPT  in  the  areas  of equipment
operation and maintenance and trade facilitation.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1996                                   1,665,000
May 1, 1997                                        1,730,000
November 1, 1997                                   1,800,000
May 1, 1998                                        1,870,000
November 1, 1998                                   1,940,000
May 1, 1999                                        2,015,000
November 1, 1999                                   2,095,000
May 1, 2000                                        2,175,000
November 1, 2000                                   2,260,000
May 1, 2001                                        2,345,000
November 1, 2001                                   2,435,000
May 1, 2002                                        2,530,000
November 1, 2002                                   2,625,000
May 1, 2003                                        2,730,000
November 1, 2003                                   2,835,000
May 1, 2004                                        2,945,000
November 1, 2004                                   3,060,000
May 1, 2005                                        3,175,000
November 1, 2005                                   3,300,000
May 1, 2006                                        3,425,000
November 1, 2006                                   3,560,000
May 1, 2007                                        3,695,000
November 1, 2007                                   3,840,000
May 1, 2008                                        3,985,000
November 1, 2008                                   4,140,000
May 1, 2009                                        4,300,000
November 1, 2009                                   4,470,000
May 1, 2010                                        4,640,000
November 1, 2010                                   4,820,000
May 1, 2011                                        4,995,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The     interest     rate
                                         (expressed      as      a
                                         percentage   per   annum)
                                         applicable to the balance
                                         outstanding  on  the Loan
                                         on the  day of prepayment
                                         multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3)  and  (5)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and   other   evidence    required   pursuant   to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf  of  the Borrower,  withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the  General  Conditions,  shall  equal  the equivalent of
twice  the  amount  of   the  Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,
withdrawal from  the  Loan  Account  of  the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank  shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank  shall  have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
