LOAN NUMBER 3689 KO
Loan Agreement
(Financial Intermediation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 
yy1owAvt 
y. 
1 
, 1994
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 3689 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, 
dated 
1?-' 
Ov 
/f , 1994, between REPUBLIC OF
KOREA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of
the Project;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Industrial
Bank of Korea (IBK), 
Citizens National Bank (CNB), and Korea Techno-
logy Banking Corporation (KTBC) (each a Participating Bank and col-
lectively 
the Participating Banks) and Part B of the Project will be
carried out by Korea Banking Institute 
(K1BI), 
in 
each case with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to each Participating Bank and to KBI a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided -in this Agreement.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter 
alia, 
of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements
of even date herewith between the Bank and respectively each Partici-
pating Bank and between the Bank and KBI.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. 
The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of
the Bank, dated February 9, 1993 with the modifications set forth 
in
Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) 
"Capital Adequacy" means the ratio 
of capital to risk
weighted assets of a Participating Bank as determined in accordance
with the banking regulations and operating rules known as the Regu-
-
2 -
lation 
on the Management Guidelines for Banking Institutions 
and
related Detailed Operating Rules of the Borrower as enacted at the
date of this 
Agreement to implement the recommendations of the Basle
Committee on the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and
Capital Standards (July 1988). The terms "capital" and "risk 
weighted
assets" have the same meanings in this definition as the terms "net
worth" and "risk 
weighted assets" have in the foregoing regulations
and detailed operating rules.
(b) 
"Charter" means for each of IBK, CNB, KTBC and KBI its
memorandum and articles 
of association or other constituent documents
under which it exists and operates as an incorporated entity.
(c) 
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 1 to the respective Project Agreements
to which the Participating Banks respectively are parties.
(d) 
"Investment Enterprise" means a private sector enterprise
established and operating in Korea and engaged in one or more produc-
tive 
activities 
in the direct or indirect export manufacturing sector
to which a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-
loan. An enterprise is a private sector enterprise if the Borrower
neither controls it 
nor has any ownership interest 
in 
it. 
An enter-
prise is 
engaged in 
activities 
in the indirect export manufacturing
sector if it derives part of its sales revenues from the sale of
intermediate goods to exporters for incorporation in 
manufactured
products for export, or if it provides services in connection with
such manufactured products.
(e) 
"Investment Project" means an ongoing or new investment
comprising fixed assets and working capital which meets the eligibi-
lity 
criteria 
set forth in paragraph 3 of the Schedule to the respec-
tive 
Project Agreements to which the respective Participating Banks
are parties.
(f) 
"CNB Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
so designated between the Bank and CNB as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental thereto.
(g) 
"IBK Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
so designated between the Bank and IBK as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental thereto.
-3-
(h) 
"KTBC Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
so designated between the Bank and KTBC as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental thereto.
(i) 
"KBI Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
so designated between the Bank and KBI as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental thereto.
(j) 
"Project Agreements" means the CNB Project Agreement, the
IKB Project Agreement, the KTBC Project Agreement and the KBI Project
Agreement, and the "Project Agreement" means any of them.
(k) 
"Special Accounts" means each of the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement and "Special Account" means
each of them.
(1) 
"Statement of Policy" means the respective statements of
lending and investment policy and of corporate strategy adopted by
the Board of Executives of IBK on November 20, 1993, the Executives
Committee of CNB on November 15, 
1993, and the Board of Directors of
KTBC on November 6, 1993, as each may be amended from time to time
with the prior consent of the Bank.
(M) 
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Bank out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project. 
The term "Sub-loan" also
includes the provision of finance to an Investment Enterprise through
the purchase of equipment which is 
then leased to the Investment
Enterprise for use in an Investment Project under a financial or
operating lease.
(n) 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means each agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and respectively IBK, CNB, 
KTBC and
KBI pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes the respective
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(0) 
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan provided under a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement.
(p) 
"Participating Bank" includes the successors and permit-
ted assigns of each of Participating Banks referred to in the Pre-
amble and also any other bank or financial institution 
which is
-4-
substituted for a Participating Bank under this Agreement and any
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the consent of the Bank and the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. 
(a) 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of each of paragraph
A.1, A.2 and A.3 of Part A of the Project and for each of Parts B and
C of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in a bank or banks acceptable to the Bank on terms and condi-
tions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, each of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay interest 
on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to Single Currency
LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%), 
plus or minus the
Average Margin as provided in paragraph (b)(iv) below.
-5-
(b) 
For the purposes of this Sectiont
(i) 
"Interest Period" means the initial period from
and including the date of this Agreement to but
not including the first 
Interest Payment Date and
thereafter the period from and including any
Interest Payment Date to but not including the
next Interest Payment Date.
(ii) 
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii) "Single Currency LIBOR" means the London inter-
bank offered rate for dollars, expressed as a
percentage per annum, 
reasonably determined by
the Bank in accordance with Schedule 6 to this
Agreement for the January 15 or July 15 on which
an Interest Period commences (or, for the initial
Interest Period, the January 15 or July 15 prece-
ding the date of this Agreement or on which such
Interest Period commences).
(iv) 
"Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period,
the weighted average margin, for the Semester
preceding the relevant January 15 or July 15,
between: 
(A) the cost of the outstanding borrow-
ings of the Bank or portions thereof allocated to
the funding of single currency loans in all
currencies; and (B) the specific London and, for
French Francs, Paris interbank offered rates or
other such reference rates attributable to such
borrowings in each such currency, all as reason-
ably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum. For any Interest Period in
which (A) exceeds (B), the Average Margin shall
be added under paragraph 
(a) 
above. 
For any
Interest Period in which (B) exceeds (A), the
Average Margin shall be subtracted under para-
graph (a) 
above. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Average Margin for the Interest Period ending
January 14, 1994 shall be minus 0.23 percent per
annum.
(v) 
"Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
-6-
(c) After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency
LIBOR and the Average Margin for any Interest 
Period, the Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such determination.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. 
(a) 
The Borrower declares its 
commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agree-
ment, and, to this end:
(i) 
shall carry out Part C of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, banking and financial
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources required for such Part of the Project;
and
(ii) 
without limitation or restriction 
upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause each Participating Bank and
KBI to perform all 
the respective obligations of
the Participating Bank or of KBI set forth in the
Project Agreements, 
shall 
take or cause to be
taken all action, 
including the provision of
funds, facilities, 
services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable each Partici-
pating Bank and KBI to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere 
with such
performance.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this 
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
-7-
wise agree, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank by December 1 in
each calendar year a proposed training program to be carried out
under Part C of the Project during the following calendar year for
the approval of the Bank and shall carry out that Part of the Project
in 
accordance with each such training program.
(c) 
The Borrower shall relend in dollars a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan to each Participating Bank and to KBI under
subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and each Participating Bank and between the Borrower and KBI, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which
shall include the following principal terms and conditions:
(i) 
the portion of the proceeds of the Loan to be
relent 
to IBK shall be those allocated from time
to time to Category (3) (a) 
of the Table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
the portion of the proceeds of the Loan to be
relent 
to CNB shall be those allocated from time
to time to Category 3(b) of that Table; the
portion of the proceeds of the Loan to be relent
to KTBC shall be those allocated from time to
time to Category 3(c) of that Table; and the
portion of the Loan to be relent to KBI shall be
those allocated from time to time to Category (1)
of that Table;
(ii) 
each Subsidiary Loan will bear interest 
from time
to time at the rate payable by the Borrower under
Section 2.05 of this Agreement;
(iii) each Participating Bank and KBI will also pay to
the Borrower an administrative charge of 0.05% of
the amount of the Subsidiary Loan which the
Borrower agrees to make to the Participating
Bank;
(iv) 
the Subsidiary Loans to IBK and CNB shall be
repayable in the same amounts and at the same
times as the Sub-loans to which they have been
applied are repaid or over 15 years including
three years' grace, whichever occurs first;
-8-
(v) 
the Subsidiary Loans to KTBC and KBI shall be
repayable over 15 years including three years'
grace;
(vi) 
each Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated and
repayable in dollars.
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its 
rights 
under each Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that 
the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the
General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules and records and reports, respectively) in respect
of Part A of the Project, shall be carried out by each Participating
Bank and by KBI pursuant to Section 2.04 of the respective Project
Agreements.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in 
accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the whole or any part of
the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
each of the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later 
than four months after 
the end
-9-
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) 
For all 
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expen-
diture, the Borrower shall:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) 
retain, until 
at least 
one year after 
the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Accounts
was made, all records 
(contracts, orders,
invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv) 
ensure 
that 
such 
records 
and 
accounts 
are
included in the annual audit referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal 
year, together
with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied 
upon
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
-
10 -
(a) 
A Participating Bank or KBI shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the respective Project Agreements.
(b) 
As a result 
of events which have occurred after 
the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall 
make it 
improbable that 
a Participating Bank or KBI will
be able to perform its obligations under the respective Project
Agreements.
(c) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of a Participating Bank or of KBI or for the suspension of the oper-
ations of a Participating Bank or of KBI.
(d) 
A Charter or a Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of a Participating Bank or of KBI or the ability of a Participating
Bank or of KBI to carry out the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the respective Project Agreements.
(e) 
Any part of the principal amount of any indebtedness of
a Participating Bank having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, 
in 
accordance with its 
terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the related contractual instru-
ment, or any security for any such indebtedness shall have become
enforceable.
(f) 
An entity 
shall have been created, acquired or taken over
by a Participating Bank, if the creation, acquisition or taking over
of the entity 
would materially and adversely affect the business or
financial condition of the Participating Bank or its 
ability 
to carry
out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) 
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (f) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and to the Participating Bank concerned or to the
Borrower and KBI if KBI is concerned in the event.
(b) 
any event specified in 
paragraph (c), 
(d) 
or 
(e) 
of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
-
11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Borrower and each Participating Bank and between the Borrower and KBI
shall have been executed on behalf of the Borrower, each Participat-
ing Bank and KBI; and
(b) 
the respective Project Agreements between the Bank and
each Participating Bank and between the Bank and KBI shall have been
executed on behalf of each Participating Bank and on behalf of KBI.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) 
of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to
the Bank:
(a) 
that 
each Project Agreement to which a Participating Bank
is 
a party has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Participating
Bank concerned and is legally binding upon the Participating Bank in
accordance with its terms;
(b) 
that the Project Agreement to which KBI is a party has
been duly authorized or ratified by KBI and is legally binding upon
KBI in accordance with its 
terms; and
(c) 
that 
each Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon
such parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
-
12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Kwachon
Republic of Korea
Cable address: 
Telex:
MOF 
K23243
Kwachon
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C. 
82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI), or
197688 (TRT)
-
13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their 
respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
BY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated 
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Dollar 
to be
Category 
Equivalent) 
Financed
(1) 
Overseas seminars, 
3,000,000 
100% of foreign
training and con- 
expenditures and
sultants services 
90% of local expen-
under Part B of 
ditures
the Project
(2) 
Overseas training 
3,000,000 
100% of foreign
under Part C of 
expenditures
the Project
(3) 
Goods and services
under Sub-loans:
(a) under Part A.1 
30,000,000 
100% of foreign
of the Project 
expenditures for
goods and services
(b) under Part A.2 
30,000,000 
and 70% of local
of the Project 
expenditures for
goods and services
(c) under Part A.3 
34,000,000 
procured locally.
of the Project
TOTAL: 
100,000,000
-
15 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan
has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement to which the Participating Bank concerned is a party.
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent under Category (3), 
and
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent under Categories (1) and (2), under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: 
(i) to support the
Borrower's program for accelerating deregulation of the financial
system; 
(ii) 
to support the institution 
building programs of the
Participating Banks; (iii) to assist in financing under long term
credits eligible private sector direct and indirect export manufac-
turing enterprises through the Participating Banks; 
and 
(iv) 
to
improve the technical capacities of professionals in the financial
sector and governmental organizations responsible for financial
sector policies through training and technical assistance programs.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A. 
Sub-loans
1. 
The financing through the provision by IBK of Sub-loans to
Investment Enterprises for the carrying out of Investment Projects.
2. 
The financing through the provision by CNB of Sub-loans to
Investment Enterprises for the carrying out of Investment Projects.
3. 
The financing through the provision by KTBC of Sub-loans to
Investment Enterprises for the carrying out of Investment Projects.
Part B. 
KBI Training Programs
1. 
The carrying out by KBI of a training program for bankers in
Korea designed to enhance their capacities to function in a libera-
lized and internationalized financial sector.
2. 
The carrying out by KBI of a program to strengthen KBI's staff
training and curriculum design and evaluation capabilities.
-
17 -
Part C. 
Ministry of Finance Training Procrams
The development and carrying out of an overseas training
program for officials 
of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and other
economic ministries in finance, economics, capital market development
and financial sector reform.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
-
18 -
SCHEDULZ 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment >f Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 1999
through July 15, 2008 
5,000,000
On January 15, 2009 
5,000,000
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "eligible 
Categories" means Category 
(1) 
in
respect of Part B of the Project, Category (2) in respect of Part C
of the Project, Category (3)(a) 
in 
respect of Part A.1 of the
Project, Category (3)(b) in respect of Part A.2 of the Project and
Category (3)(c) in respect of Part A.3 of the Project, set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Cate-
gories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agree-
ment, provided, however, that 
notwithstanding the provisions of para-
graph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the respective Project Agreements to
which the respective Participating Banks are parties, payments for
expenditures to 
be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-
loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof.
Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures
only if 
the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of the
Special Account for each of Categories 
(3)(a), 
(3)(b) and (3)(c)
included in the eligible Categories, an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 and, for each of Categories (1) and (2) included in the
eligible Categories, an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited into the respective Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.
2. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
each Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account sha'Ll be made as follows:
-
20 -
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit into the relevant Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of each Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in
respect of which replenishment is requested. On
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into each Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said docu-
ments and other evidence.
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of each Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expendi-
tures.
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a
Special Account:
-
21 -
(a) 
if, 
at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b) 
once the total 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible 
Categories, 
less 
the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied 
that 
all 
such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date
of such notice will 
be utilized 
in 
making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account:
(i) 
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this sched-
ule; or
(ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon
notice from the Bank:
(A) 
provide such additional evidenace as the
Bank may request; or
(B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not 
so
eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank
into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
-
22 -
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all 
or any. portion of the funds on deposit in 
the Special
Accounts.
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), 
(b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
-
23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
The words "the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) 
by the date specified in 
subparagraph 4(c) of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said
paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or
requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and Guaran-
tor, terminate the right to submit such applications or
approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
of the Loan shall be cancelled."
-
24 -
SCHEDULE 6
Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1. 
Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the
offered rate for deposits in dollars for a period of six months which
appears on the display designated as page "3750" on the Telerate
monitor (or such other page or service as may replace it 
for the
purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks
for dollar deposits), as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second
day on which banks and foreign exchange markets are open for business
in London prior to the relevant January 15 or July 15 (the Interest
Determination Date).
2. 
If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on such
service as may replace it, 
the Bank shall request the London offices
of four major banks to provide the Bank with the rate at which
deposits in dollars are offered by such banks on the Interest Deter-
mination Date to leading banks in the London interbank market for a
period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest Period.
Single Currency LIBOR for such Interest Period shall be the arith-
metic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal place)
of such offered quotations as determined by the Bank.
3. 
If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such
quotations under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be
the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth
decimal place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by at least
two major banks in New York City selected by the Bank on the Interest
Determination Date for loans in dollars to leading European banks for
a period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest
Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are quoting such
rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the single currency in effect
for the last preceding Interest Period.
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY
