Emergenicy Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 1 of 9
Algeria- Emnergency Desert Locust Control Project
l'roject ID: P034140
Credit/l,oan/Guarantee No.: L3690
Borrower: DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPU1BLIC OF ALGERIA
Other Partv:
Effective Date: 07/06/1994
Closing 1)ate: 06/30/1996
Sector: AY - Agriculture/Other-Agriculture
Lending Instrument: SIL - Specific Investment Loan
Plrogram Objective: EN - Environment
E'nvironment Rating: T - To Be Determined
UN Registration No.: 31128
Loan Agreement
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3690 AL
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Desert Locust Control Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
lIttp://nweb 2 3.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf3e9006b5ce4 
228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Emergency Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 2 of 9
Dated January 27, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3690 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1994, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements"
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and a
new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "ANN" means the National Agency for the Conservation of Nature of the Borrower
(Agence Nationale de la Conservation de la Nature), a public authority established
and operating pursuant to Executive Decree No. 91-33 of the Borrower, dated
February 9, 1991, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b) "ANPE" means the National Agency for the Protection of the Environment of the
Borrower (Agence Nationale de la Protection de l'Environnement), a public authority
established and operating pursuant to Executive Decree No. 83-457 of the Borrower,
dated July 23, 1983, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Banque d'Algerie", means Bank of Algeria, the central bank of the Borrower,
littp ://lnlweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
Emergency Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 3 of 9
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 90-10 of the Borrower, dated April
14, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d) "ICLC" means the Inter-ministerial Committee on Locust Control of the Borrower
established pursuant to Executive Decree No. 67-177 of the Borrower, dated August
31, 1967, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e) "INPV" means the National Institute for the Protection of Crops of the Borrower
(Institut National de la Protection des Vegetaux), a public authority established
and operating under the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Agriculture of the
Borrower, pursuant to Executive Decree No. 93-139 of the Borrower, dated June 14,
1993, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(f) 
"ONM" means the National Meteorological Office of the Borrower (Office National
de Meteorologie), established and operating under the supervisory authority of the
Ministry of Transport of the Borrower pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 75-25 of
the Borrower, dated April 29, 1975, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g) "IPCC" means the Central Command Post (Poste de Commandement Central) within
INPV;
(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and
(i) "Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower organized pursuant to
the Borrower's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative a la Wilaya) No. 90-09, dated April 7,
1990, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have
an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty million dollars
($30,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in Banque d'Alg rie on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Sec:ion 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest
lhttp://lnweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e90O6b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
Emer-enicy Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 4 of 9
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date immediately
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) 
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably determined by the
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of a calendar
year.
(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to the
Borrower, paragraphs (a), 
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter."
"(c) 
(iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, April 1,
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on February
1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Pr:je-t 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
http ://lnweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
Emergency Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 5 of 9
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. For purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall ensure that the following health and environmental safeguards are observed:
(a) only pesticides approved by the Bank, from among the list of pesticides for
locust control which meet the present standards established by the Food and
Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization, shall be used on the
Borrower's territory; (b) persons handling pesticides shall be provided with
protective clothing and equipment, including health kits, and shall be adequately
qualified and trained to handle pesticides; (c) adequate advance notice shall be
given to the local population in the areas to be sprayed with pesticides; (d) the
labelling, packaging and storage of pesticide containers, and the disposal of
pesticides and pesticide containers, shall be carried out in accordance with the
internationally accepted general standards provided for under the International
Ccde of Conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pesticides published by the Food and
Agriculture Organization; and (e) suitable pesticide effluent disposal mechanisms
shall be made available to prevent environmental pollution and pesticide leakage
into groundwater, including leakage resulting from the rinsing of pesticide
containers.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
http://lnweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
Emergenicy Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 6 of 9
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy
Zighout Youssef Palace
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cable address: Telex:
FINPLAN 67073
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: Telex:
INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)
lhttp ://lnweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3 e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
Emaergenicy Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 7 of 9
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names
in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Nourredine Y. Zerhouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECON4STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Anil Sood
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Pesticides 12,500,000 100% of foreign
under Part expenditures,
A.2 of the 100% of local
Project expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 50%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2) Commercial 12,150,000 100% of foreign
aircraft expenditures and
services 70% of local
expenditures
(3) Vehicles 3,000,000 100% of foreign
and spare expenditures
http://Inxveb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e90O6b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
Emer-geicy Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 8 of 9
parts
(4) Equipment 700,000 100% of foreign
and expenditures,
materials 100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 60%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(5) Consultants' 150,000 100%
services and
training
(6) Unallocated 1,500,000
TOTAL 30,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project, which has been designed in anticipation of a large
locust invasion in February/March 1994, are to: (i) provide urgent assistance in
support of the Borrower's locust control program; and (ii) reinforce the existing
surveillance and warning systems of the Borrower to better anticipate locust
activity and movement and facilitate the planning and implementation of future
locust control programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Locust Control Campaigns
1. Carrying out three locust control campaigns over the period February/March 1994
to January 1995, including the aerial and ground spraying of approximately one
million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) hectares of infested areas in the
litp :// nNweb23 .worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
Emergenicy Desert Locust Control Project 
Page 9 of 9
territory of the Borrower.
2. Provision of about one million five hundred thousand (1,500,000) liters of
pesticides required for the campaigns referred to under Part A.1 above.
Part B: Strengthening the Borrower's Locust Control Capabilities
Provision to INPV of three (3) fork lifts, about eighty (80) manual pumps, about
one hundred (100) atomizers, laboratory equipment to analyze pesticides, health
kits, and spare parts for INPV's existing stock of vehicles and for the
aforementioned atomizers.
Part C: Reinforcement of Surveillance and Warning Systems
Provision to INPV of about fifty (50) four-wheel drive vehicles, spare parts for
said vehicles, small meteorological equipment and mobile telecommunications
equipment, including air to ground receivers and about ten (10) hand-held global
positioning systems.
Part D: Technical Assistance
Provision of materials and short-term consultants' services to strengthen the
capabilities of INPV in handling, application and storage of pesticides, and
disposal of pesticides and pesticide containers.
Part E: Training
Training of the personnel of INPV in locust prospection, pesticide handling,
phytopharmacy and pesticide-related environmental protection.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1999
through August 1, 2010 1,250,000
and on February 1, 2011 1,250,000
[ ;.. 
'A 
ic,ltl S i.ibr8arv
http://InXweb23.worldbank.org/legal/legalagr.nsf/3e9006b5ce41228b852564990066be64/b... 
12/27/2005
C 
,,. 
,,'i',,! 
i 
.4....... 
,..*.................... 
14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1999
through August 1, 2010 
1,250,000
and on February 1, 2011 
1,250,000
* 
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
-
15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of P7epayment 
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years 
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but 
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but 
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not 
0.88
more thar, 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before 
1.00
maturity
_ 
17 
.
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
I and 11 of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and
2.56 thereof).
2. 
Items or groups of items of vehicles and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarecd on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers fr-,- at least two different
countries 
eligible under the 
Guidelines, 
in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D: 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) 
With respect to each contract for pesticides and each
contract for commercial aircraft services, and each contract for
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where pa3ments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that tile two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) 
With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as pari 
of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedui 6 to this Agreement.
(c) 
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
-
18 -
2. 
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1. 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts D and E
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i) whose
quallfications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
agreed with the Bank. Where nc relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignmants of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of coatracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that INPV shall at all times be
responsible for the implementation of the Project and the monitoring
of the activities to be carried out thereunder.
2. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause INPV, not later than
March 31 and September 30 of every year, commencing September 30,
1994, until completion of the Project, to prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, describing progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall cause PCC to assist INPV in the carrying
out of Part A.1 of the Project. PCC shall be responsible for
formulating a lccust control strateg3, in connection with the
impending locust invasion, and supervising the coordination of
locust control operations. PCC shall consist of three (3) units,
each of which headed by a staff member of INPV temporarily assigned
to PCC for purposes of assisting in carrying out Part A.1 of the
Project. The first unit shall be responsible for technical matters,
the second unit for logistical support and the third unit for
management and finance.
4. 
In order to achieve the objectives of Part A.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause (i) command posts in Wilayas which are
likely to be invaded by locust to assist INPV and PCC in the
carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) ONM to provide up-to-
date weather forecasts and analyses; (iii) ANPE to monitor the
impact of the use of pesticides on the environment and prevent
pesticide-related environmental pollution; (iv) ANN to take all
measures necessary on its part to protect the natural habitat and
wildlife in national parks to be sprayed by pesticides; and (v) the
toxicology center within the medical university center of Bab-El-
Oued to monitor the health condition of field operators engaged in
the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project.
-
20 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), 
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means 
an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
r
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it chat
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, 
the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or reQuests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or arounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account 
at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
3
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such 
equest,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
I!
-23--
documerts and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Accournt and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
.. 1*such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
.couat tinder the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the
!spe:tive equivalent amotnts, as shall have been justified by said
::)cusrnts and other evidence.
* 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
.count, 
the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall
--asonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
.idence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
-cpentiitures.
.. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of 
parag-aph 3 of 
this
§:.hedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
:.ato the Special Account:
(a) 
it, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
.arther withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
LDan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
:ene::al Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
greement; or
(b) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
cpecial commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
cf t">e General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the .-quivalent of tuTice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
?hereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaininig
,inwithdrani amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
-hall follow such procedures as che Bank shall specify by notice to
-he Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
'io the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
.Qmounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
-
22 -
of such notice wilL be utilized in making payments for elig .ble
expenditures.
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of --his
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so requ.!st,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such paymen: or
the portloni thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the -lank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 3uch
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount cutstanding in the Special Account will not be require-l to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borr3wer
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund tc the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Spezial
Account.
(d) 
Refunds to t½le Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance wit1 the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General
Conditions.
