CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4019 PH 
 
Agreement Amending 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Manila Second Sewerage Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM 
 
Dated March 17, 1998 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4019 PH 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and METROPOLITAN 
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) By the Loan Agreement dated June 19, 1996 between the Bank 
and the Borrower for a Manila Second Sewerage Project (the Loan Agreement), the Bank 
agreed to extend Loan No. 4019 PH to the Borrower to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (the Project) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date with the Loan Agreement (the Guarantee 
Agreement), the REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Guarantor) agreed to guarantee 
the obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement and to undertake such 
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has entered into concession arrangements with Manila Water 
Company, Inc. (MWCI) and Maynilad Water Services, Inc. (MWSI) whereby MWCI and 
MWSI will operate the Borrower’s system of waterworks and sewerage services within 
their respective concession areas; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank to amend the Loan Agreement to 
permit MWCI and MWSI to carry out the portion of the Project within their respective 
concession areas; 
 
(E) 
the Guarantor agrees with the request of the Borrower to amend the Loan 
Agreement and, by a letter agreement dated March 17, 1998 has reconfirmed its guarantee 
of the obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement as amended; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to amend 
the Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Articles I through VIII and Schedules 1 through 6 of the Loan Agreement are 
hereby amended to read as follows: 
- 2 -
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted. 
 
(b) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations." 
 
(c) 
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read: 
 
"(k) 
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement." 
 
(d) 
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at 
any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
- 3 -
Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
“Act” means Republic Act No. 6243 of the Guarantor, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement, establishing the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System as 
an agency of the Guarantor responsible for developing, operating and maintaining water 
supply, sewerage and sanitation systems in and around Metro Manila; 
 
(b) 
"Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas" means the central bank of the Guarantor and 
any successor thereto; 
 
(c) 
“Concessionaires” means, collectively, MWCI and MWSI; and 
“Concessionaire” means either one of the Concessionaires; 
 
(d) 
“Concession Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements entered into 
between the Borrower and each of the Concessionaires, dated 21 February 1997; and 
“Concession Agreement” means either of the Concession Agreements; 
 
(e) 
“DPWH” means the Department of Public Works and Highways of the 
Guarantor and any successor thereto; 
 
(f) 
“East Service Area” means the area within Metro Manila covered by the 
Concession Agreement with MWCI; 
 
(g) 
“East Area Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
"EMP” means the environmental management plan dated January 1996 
prepared by the Borrower, which sets out the basic measures to protect, or to mitigate the 
effects on, the environment during the construction and the operation phases of the Project, 
- 4 -
and the administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
measures; 
 
(i) 
“Project Management Office” and “PMO” mean the office established by 
the Borrower and referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of MWCI, Part A of the 
Project, and in respect of MWSI, Part B of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the East Area Special Account 
and the West Area Special Account; and “Special Account” means one of said Special 
Accounts; 
 
(l) 
“Sub-project Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and “Sub-project Agreement” means either of the 
Sub-project Agreements; 
 
(m) 
“Supervision Agreements” means the Agreements on the Supervision of 
Existing Projects, dated July 31, 1997, entered into between the Borrower and each of the 
Concessionaires; and “Supervision Agreement” means either of the Supervision 
Agreements; 
 
(n) 
“West Service Area” means the area within Metro Manila covered by the 
Concession Agreement with MWSI; and 
 
(o) 
“West Area Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate 
value equivalent to the amount of forty eight million dollars ($48,000,000), being the sum 
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of 
the date of such withdrawal. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
- 5 -
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars: 
 
(i) 
a special deposit account for Part A of the Project (the East Area 
Special Account); and 
 
(ii) 
a special deposit account for Part B of the Project (the West Area 
Special Account); 
 
in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng 
Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, said Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan 
not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal 
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest 
Period. 
 
(b) 
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester. 
- 6 -
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed. 
 
(ii)  
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, 
of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the 
Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing 
interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph 
(a) of this Section. 
 
(iii)  
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year. 
 
(d) 
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as 
follows: 
 
"(a) 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each 
of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the 
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such 
Interest Period." 
 
"(b) 
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Quarter." 
 
"(c) 
(iii) “Quarter” means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year." 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on January 1 
and July 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 7 -
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause the 
Concessionaires to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of their 
respective Sub-project Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, environmental, managerial and public utility practices; shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Concessionaires to carry out the 
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with the carrying out of the Project by the Concessionaires. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall enter into a 
Sub-project Agreement with each Concessionaire in regard to its Respective Part of the 
Project, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
obligations of the Concessionaire to: 
 
(i) 
carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with a 
project implementation plan acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
prior to commencing work on each of Parts A.1 and A.2, and Parts 
B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4, respectively, prepare in respect of each such 
Part a detailed environment management plan acceptable to the 
Bank and in accordance with the general measures set forth in the 
EMP, and thereafter carry out each such plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(iii) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of such 
environmental management plans, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank; and commencing on December 31, 1998 
submit to MWSS for consolidation in an annual report by MWSS 
to the Bank, an annual monitoring report regarding the 
implementation of such plans; 
 
(iv) 
commencing June 30, 1999, furnish reports of annual audits 
performed by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank of its 
procedures to monitor and evaluate compliance with the 
environmental management plans; and take all actions necessary 
to ensure compliance with such plans taking into consideration the 
- 8 -
recommendations from such audits and the Bank’s comments 
thereon; 
 
(v) 
take all actions necessary to adhere to a timetable for cessation of 
sea disposal of septage acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(vi) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, including those set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(vii) 
submit to the Borrower periodic reports sufficient to enable the 
Borrower to prepare the reports referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-project Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan and the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Sub-project 
Agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall maintain its Project Management Office, 
managed and staffed with personnel in adequate number and with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank to monitor the carrying out of the Project by the 
Concessionaires. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
by March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing on September 
30, 1998, prepare and submit to the Bank a semi-annual progress report on the 
implementation of all components of the Project, which shall include revised cost estimates 
and implementing schedules; and 
 
(b) 
(i) 
by March 31, 2000 prepare and submit to the Bank a report on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient implementation of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
- 9 -
(ii)  
by April 30, 2000 review such report with the Bank, and 
thereafter, take or cause to be taken all necessary action to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof on the basis of the conclusion and 
recommendations of said report and taking into consideration the 
Bank’s view thereon. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the purposes of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a 
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such financial statements, records and accounts and a report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
- 10 -
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
A Concessionaire shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
its respective Sub-project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that a 
Concessionaire will be able to perform its obligations under its respective Sub-project 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Either Concession Agreement or Supervision Agreement or any provision 
thereof shall have been amended, breached, suspended, voided or waived so as to affect 
- 11 -
materially and adversely the ability of a Concessionaire to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Sub-project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of 
the Borrower, or the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project or any part thereof, or 
to perform any of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
(e) 
The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or the suspension of its 
operations. 
 
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of  this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Sub-project Agreement with MWSI has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and MWSI in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
a supplementary legal opinion acceptable to the Bank has been provided to 
the Bank showing on behalf of the Borrower, that: (i) this Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and (ii) the Sub-project 
Agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Concessionaire and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Concessionaire in accordance with its terms 
 
Section 6.02.  March 17, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 
of the General Conditions. 
 
- 12 -
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01.  The Administrator of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
PANGASIWAAN NG TUBIG AT 
 
ALKANTARILYA SA METRO MANILA 
 
Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System 
 
Katipunan Road, Balara 
 
Quezon City 1105, Philippines 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex: 
 
MWSS PH 
 
 
(722) 27947 MWSS PH 
 
- 13 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS  
 
AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM 
 
By /s/ Reynaldo B. Vea 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
 
Category 
  ( Expressed in  
  % of  
 
to be financed
Dollar Equivalent) 
Expenditures
(1) 
Civil works 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 50% 
 
(a) under Part A 
6,400,000 
of local expenditures 
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
(b) under Part B 
21,100,000 
 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods and materials                   
 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures, 
 
(a) under Part A                              3,500,000 
100% of local 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
(b) under Part B                              3,500,000 
and 65% of local 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items pro- 
 
cured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
100% 
 
(a) under Part A  
4,000,000 
 
of the Project 
 
(b) under Part B  
4,000,000 
 
of the Project 
 
(4) 
Unallocated                               
5,500,000 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL                48,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
- 15 -
(a) 
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories 
(3) (a) and (3) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after July 15, 1995; and 
 
(b) 
(i) under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) and (3) (a), and (ii) under Categories  
(1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b), unless a Sub-project Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has 
been entered into between the Borrower and MWCI, and between the Borrower and 
MWSI, respectively. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  
 
(a) 
civil works under contracts not exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent; 
 
(b) 
goods and materials under contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent; 
and 
 
(c) 
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals not 
exceeding $100,000 and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; 
 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) reduce the pollution 
of Metro Manila waterways and Manila Bay; (b) reduce the health hazards associated with 
human exposure to sewage in Metro Manila; and (c) establish a gradual low-cost 
improvement of sewerage services in Metro Manila. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
PART A: East Service Area
1. 
Construction of a barge loading station at Napindan with a capacity to transfer 
about 500 cubic meters per day (m3/d) of septage from collecting vehicles to barges. 
 
2. 
Upgrading of the Ayala sewerage system, including the repair of the pumping 
station and sedimentation tanks to provide mechanical treatment of septage. 
 
3. 
Strengthening of MWCI’s central laboratory, through the provision of specialized 
instruments, equipment, furniture and materials. 
 
4. 
Strengthening of the technical capabilities of MWCI to operate and maintain 
sewerage systems in the East Service Area, through the provision of vehicles, machinery 
and tools. 
 
5. 
Strengthening of the technical capabilities of MWCI in construction supervision, 
development of septage treatment experiments, environmental monitoring and preparation 
of follow-up sewerage projects, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
 
PART B: West Service Area
1. 
Construction of a septage treatment plant at Dagat-Dagatan with a capacity of 
about 200 m3/d. 
 
2. 
Construction of barge-loading stations at Estero de Vistas and Paranaque, each 
with a capacity to transfer about 500 m3/d of septage from collecting vehicles to barges. 
 
3. 
Upgrading of the Manila central sewerage system, including the repair of defective 
pipes and pumping stations and minimizing of the entry of rain water into the system. 
 
- 17 -
4. 
Construction of about 10,000 new sewer connections in the West Service Area. 
 
5. 
Strengthening of the MWSI’s central laboratory, through the provision of 
specialized instruments, equipment, furniture and materials. 
 
6. 
Strengthening of the technical capabilities of MWSI to operate and maintain 
sewerage systems in the West Service Area, through the provision of vehicles, machinery 
and tools. 
 
7. 
Strengthening of the technical capabilities of MWSI in construction supervision, 
development of septage treatment experiments, environmental monitoring and preparation 
of follow-up sewerage projects, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
January 1, 2002                                                                                  965,000 
July 1, 2002                                                                                        995,000 
January 1, 2003                                                                               1,030,000 
July 1, 2003 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,065,000 
January 1, 2004  
 
 
 
 
          1,100,000 
July 1, 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,135,000 
January 1, 2005  
 
 
 
 
          1,170,000 
July 1, 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,210,000 
January 1, 2006  
 
 
 
 
          1,250,000 
July 1, 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,290,000 
January 1, 2007  
 
 
 
 
          1,330,000 
July 1, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,375,000 
January 1, 2008  
 
 
 
                        1,420,000 
July 1, 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,465,000 
January 1, 2009  
 
 
 
 
          1,515,000 
July 1, 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,565,000 
January 1, 2010  
 
 
 
 
          1,615,000 
July 1, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,670,000 
January 1, 2011  
 
 
 
 
          1,725,000 
July 1, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,780,000 
January 1, 2012  
 
 
 
 
          1,840,000 
July 1, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
          1,900,000 
January 1, 2013  
 
 
 
 
          1,960,000 
July 1, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
          2,025,000 
January 1, 2014  
 
 
 
 
          2,090,000 
July 1, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
          2,160,000 
January 1, 2015  
 
 
 
 
          2,230,000 
July 1, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
          2,300,000 
January 1, 2016  
 
 
 
 
          2,375,000 
July 1, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
          2,450,000 
 
___________________ 
 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment 
 
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the 
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified 
for the applicable time of prepayment below: 
 
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) 
applicable to the Loan on the day 
of prepayment multiplied by: 
 
Not more than three years 
0.15 
 
before maturity 
 
More than three years but 
0.30 
 
not more than six years 
 
before maturity 
 
More than six years but 
0.55 
 
not more than eleven years 
 
before maturity 
 
More than eleven years but not 
0.80 
 
more than sixteen years 
 
before maturity 
 
More than sixteen years but not 
0.90 
 
more than eighteen years 
 
before maturity 
 
More than eighteen years before 
1.00 
 
maturity 
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
Prequalification
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
 
(c) 
Notification and advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.  
 
- 21 -
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,510,000 equivalent, and (b) works under Parts A (1) and 
B (2) of the Project estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,530,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for (a) works estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent 
or more; and (b) goods estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
- 22 -
Part B: Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of  Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A (5) and B (7) of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to  consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
- 23 -
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE  5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means for the East Area Special Account 
Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) and (3) (a) (collectively, the East Area Categories) and for the 
West Area Special Account Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b) (collectively the West 
Area Categories), all as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
 
(i) 
$ 1,000,000 for the East Area Special Account; and 
 
(ii) 
$ 1,000,000 for the West Area Special Account; 
 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into such Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 for 
the East Area Special Account and $ 500,000 for the West Area Special Account until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $ 5,000,000 for the East 
Area Categories and the amount of $ 5,000,000 for the West Area Categories, respectively. 
 
2. 
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested. 
- 25 -
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into said Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of said Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into a Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required 
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for said Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 26 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Bank 
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into said Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in said Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in said Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
- 27 -
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
A. 
West Service Area - Maynilad Water Services Inc.
1. Provision of Sewerage Services
Year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2001
2003
2006
Population with sewer connections 1
16 
  17 
  20 
 
Population with septic tanks cleaned 2
43 
  44 
  46 
 
2. Improvement of Environment
Year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2001
2003
2006
Septage treated (m3/d)  
 
 
Nil 
 200 
 640 
 
Septage disposed at ocean (m3/d) 
 
 450 
 300 
Nil 
 
Residential wastewater treated 3
-
-
-
3. Quality of Service, Customer Relations
Year                                                                      Beginning January 1998
Number of queries, complaints and 
         at least 10% decrease annually 
 
notices on septic tank servicing 
 
Number of responses 
 
 
         at least 10% decrease annually 
 
Response time  
 
 
         at least 10% decrease annually 
 
1
Expressed as a percentage of the total population in the service area connected to the 
 
Concessionaire’s water system at the time of the target. 
 
2
Expressed as a percentage of the total population in the service area connected to the 
 
Concessionaire’s water system at the time of the target. 
 
3
Investment program being developed, performance indicators will be agreed in a 
 
separate letter. 
- 28 -
B. 
East Service Area - Manila Water Company Inc.
Year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2001
2003
2006
1. Provision of Sewerage Services
Population with sewer connections 4
3
8
16
Population with septic tanks cleaned 5
38 
  36 
   32 
 
2. Improvement of Environment
Year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2001
2003
2006
Septage treated (m3/d)  
 
 
Nil 
 100 
 450 
 
Septage disposed at ocean  (m3/d) 
 
 350 
 300 
 Nil 
 
Residential wastewater treated 6
-
-
-
3. Quality of Service, Customer Relations
Beginning January 1998
Number of queries, complaints and 
         at least 10% decrease annually 
 
notices on septic tank servicing 
 
Number of responses 
 
 
         at least 10% decrease annually 
 
Response time  
 
 
         at least 10% decrease annually 
 
4
Expressed as a percentage of the total population in the service area connected to the 
 
Concessionaire’s water system at the time of the target. 
 
5
Expressed as a percentage of the total population in the service area connected to the 
 
Concessionaire’s water system at the time of the target. 
 
6
Expressed as a percentage of the total population in the service area connected to the 
 
Concessionaire’s water system at the time of the target. 
- 29 -
carmen 
M:\PHIL\HOI-CHAN\MWSS\AMD-SIG.DOC 
March 25, 1998 11:37 AM
 
