CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4344 TU
Loan Agreement
(National Transmission Grid Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK ILETIM VE URETIM A.S.
Dated June 25, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4344 TU 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25 , 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TURKIYE ELEKTRIK ILETIM VE URETIM A.S. 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Turkey (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BEST" means the bulk electricity supply tariff of the transmission grid 
system;
(b)
"CPP" means the Corporate Performance Plan of the Borrower referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"Decree No. 93/4789" dated August 12, 1993, means the decree of the 
Guarantor pursuant to which the Borrower was established and is operating;
(d)
"Decree Law No. 233" dated June 8, 1984, means the decree law of the 
Guarantor relating to state-owned enterprises;
(e)
"fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting on January 1 
and ending on December 31 of each year; 
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(g)
"TSO framework" means the Transmission System Operations framework for 
the independent operation of the transmission grid and load dispatch facilities. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred seventy million Dollars ($270,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank or in 
the Central Bank of the Guarantor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period 
of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, engineering, environmental and public utility practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, following an exchange of views 
with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 in each year, a CPP for the 
following fiscal year of the Borrower, which shall set forth, in a manner consistent 
with the Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement: (i) the generation and 
transmission system expansion targets for the Borrower, including the components of 
the capital expenditures program to be carried out during the concerned fiscal year 
and the investments under such components to be financed from the proceeds of the 
Loan; (ii) the financial targets for the Borrower, including a financial projection 
showing whether the Borrower would comply with its obligations under Section 5.03 (a) 
of this Agreement; and (iii) the Borrower’s levels of services, borrowing needs, 
financing plan and tariff levels and structures; 
(b)
obtain the Guarantor’s approval of the CPP and of the actions required 
thereunder, and furnish to the Bank the final version of each CPP prior to the start 
of the fiscal year covered by it; and
(c)
exchange views regularly with the Bank with respect to progress in the 
carrying out of the CPPs.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Management and Operations of the Borrower 
Section 4.01.  The Borrower shall carry out its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environment 
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall not, without the consent of the Bank, sell, 
lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which shall 
be required for the efficient carrying out of its business and undertakings, including 
the carrying out of the Project. 
ARTICLE V 
Financial Covenants 
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the 
carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank who shall be employed by December 
31, 1998;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and a report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the aidit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representative to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall take all action required on its part to receive 
an unqualified audit opinion from the independent auditors to be employed pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, for its financial statements for the calendar 
year 1998.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
(i) produce, for each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources equivalent to 
not less than 35% for the fiscal year 1998 and in each succeeding fiscal year of the 
average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures during the fiscal year concerned; (ii) 
maintain, beginning with the fiscal year 1998, a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities of not less than 1.0; and (iii) ensure that the estimated net revenues of 
the Borrower shall be at least 1.5 times in 1998 and each succeeding fiscal year, the 
estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any such fiscal year 
on all debt of the Borrower.
(b)
If any projection referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement 
shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of 
this Section 5.03 for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower 
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments 
of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
power purchase costs, fuel costs, administration, adequate 
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes 
(excluding provision for depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges and income taxes), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash outflows 
other than capital expenditures, increase in working capital 
other than cash.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve (12) months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations, averaged over a three (3) 
year period covering the year concerned and the year preceding and 
the year succeeding such year.
(viii)The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could 
in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ix)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(x)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take account of the Borrower’s tariffs in effect 
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were 
not in effect during the twelve (12) month period to which 
such revenues relate and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
power purchase costs, fuel costs, administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges and interest and other charges on debt.
(xi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall take all action required on its part to 
maintain anaccounts receivable level at not more than forty-five (45) days of average 
daily electricity sales during each calendar year.
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that Decree Law No. 233 or Decree No. 
93/4789 of the Guarantor or the by-laws of the Borrower governing the Borrower’s 
activities, as amended to the date of this Agreement, shall have been further amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely 
affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out the covenants, agreements and 
obligations set forth in this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VII 
Termination 
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Turkiye Elektrik Iletim ve Uretim a.s.
Genel Mudurlugu
Inonu Bulvari, No. 27
Bahcelievler
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address: 
Telex:
42247 TEK TRIN 
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ James Wolfensohn 
President
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK ILETIM VE URETIM A.S.
By /s/ Gunes Taner 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (including
   236,000,000
(a) 100% of foreign  
associated works and
expenditures, 100% of 
services)
local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
85% of other items 
procured locally with 
respect to contracts 
for goods only; and 
(b) 85% with respect 
to turn-key contracts, 
providing for the supply 
of goods in addition to 
associated works and 
services 
(2)
Consultants’ services
     7,000,000
100%
(3)
Unallocated
                27,000,000
TOTAL
   270,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 30, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for goods not 
exceeding $250,000 equivalent; and (b) contracts for employment of consulting firms 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Guarantor and the Borrower to: 
(a) continue the reform of the power sector; (b) develop adequate transmission grid 
capacity in a timely and environmentally sustainable manner; and (c) strengthen the 
financial viability of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Reform
Provision of consultants’ services to: 
(1)
establish an independent operation of the transmission grid system; 
(2)
strengthen the capacity of the Borrower to carry out environmental analyses of 
grid investments; 
(3)
implement a management information system; 
(4)
strengthen the capacity of the Borrower to access the international capital 
markets;�and 
(5)
carry out training programs necessary for the foregoing institutional reform of 
the Borrower.
Part B:
Grid Investment Program  
(1)
Supply and installation of 380 kV substation equipment. 
(2)
Supply and installation of 380 kV lines. 
(3)
Supply and installation of 154 kV substations. 
(4)
Supply and installation of 154 kV transmission lines and  XLPE cables.
(5)
Implementation of a load dispatch modernization system and other automation 
systems. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
October 15, 2002
 7,045,000 
April 15, 2003
 7,255,000 
October 15, 2003
 7,470,000 
April 15, 2004
 7,690,000 
October 15, 2004
 7,915,000 
April 15, 2005
 8,150,000 
October 15, 2005
 8,390,000 
April 15, 2006
 8,640,000 
October 15, 2006
 8,895,000 
April 15, 2007
 9,160,000 
October 15, 2007
 9,430,000 
April 15, 2008
 9,710,000 
October 15, 2008
 9,995,000 
April 15, 2009
10,290,000 
October 15, 2009
10,595,000 
April 15, 2010
10,905,000 
October 15, 2010
11,230,000 
April 15, 2011
11,560,000 
October 15, 2011
11,905,000 
April 15, 2012
12,255,000 
October 15, 2012
12,615,000 
April 15, 2013
12,990,000 
October 15, 2013
13,375,000 
April 15, 2014
13,770,000 
October 15, 2014
14,175,000 
April 15, 2015
14,590,000
______________
*     The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more awarded on the basis of the provisions of Part B of this Section, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for carrying out environmental analyses 
under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for design and implementation of training under Part A (3) of the 
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training under Part A (3) of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for training under Part A (3) of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
required for Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
required for Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall:  
(a)
(i)
continue to maintain, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, an 
adequately staffed steering committee under its General Manager or an Assistant 
General Manager and a member of the Board of Directors of the Borrower to oversee 
implementation of the Project and to be responsible for the technical and 
administrative functions under the Project, including the procurement of goods 
thereunder; and (ii) continue to maintain the Borrower’s World Bank Project Group 
reporting to an Assistant General Manager and a member of the Board of Directors of 
the Borrower to coordinate the implementation aspects of the Project; and
(b)
cause said steering committee to monitor the implementation of the 
obligations and achievement of the targets set forth in the CPP.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
 prepare environmental analyses for investments under Part B of the 
Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with an action plan as 
agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank; and 
(b)
implement the recommendations of such environmental analyses in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall, acting in conjunction with the Guarantor, take all actions 
required on its part to carry out an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to put 
into effect the independent operation of the transmission grid system, which action 
plan shall comprise:
(a)  the separation, by December 31, 1998, of the generation business of the 
Borrower from its transmission and load dispatch functions;
(b)  the implementation of a TSO framework, by September 30, 2000, comprising: 
(i) arrangements for the operation of the electricity markets in Turkey; (ii) 
contractual matrix to be entered into by the Borrower as the national transmission 
grid and load dispatch company; (iii) issuance of a license for the operation of the 
transmission grid and load dispatch system; and (iv) the grid code defining rights and 
obligations of the users of the grid, including the Borrower;
(c)  the implementation of a revised BEST regime by December 31, 1999, 
comprising: (i) the principles of transmission pricing; and (ii) the mechanisms for 
the application of transmission prices; and
(d)  the deployment, by January 1, 2000, of a business plan for the Borrower as 
the national transmission grid and load dispatch company integrating the TSO 
framework, BEST regime and the institutional aspects of the independent operation of 
the transmission grid and load dispatch system.
4.
The Borrower shall take all action required on its part to adjust electricity 
prices as frequently as necessary in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that: 
(a)
said prices to its consumers, net of all taxes and levies, are at a 
minimum equivalent to US$0.032 per kilowatt hour on an annual average basis; and
(b)
the Borrower is able to meet its obligations set forth in Section 5.03 
(a) (i) of this Agreement. 
5.
The Borrower shall employ financial advisers, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Borrower in obtaining debt financing from the 
international markets, and such financial advisers are to be employed at least nine 
(9) months prior to the targeted date for obtaining such debt financing.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank,  the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by October 31 of each year, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31 of each year, the report referred to 
in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank 
views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $27,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
