CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4344-0 TU
TEIAS Loan Assumption Agreement
(National Transmission Grid Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT 
and
TURKIYE ELEKTRIK ILETIM A.S
Dated March 25, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4344-0 TU
LOAN ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TURKIYE ELEKRTIK ILETIM 
A.S. (the Borrower or TEIAS).
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
WHEREAS (A) by a loan agreement between the Bank and Turkiye Elektrik  Uretim 
Iletim A.S. (TEAS), dated June 25, 1998, as amended on October 13, 1999  (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank made a loan (the TEAS Loan) to TEAS in an amount  equal to 
$270,000,000 on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(B)
by a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Turkey (the Guarantor) and 
the Bank, dated June 25, 1998 (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor guaranteed all the 
obligations of TEAS contained or referred to in the Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
by Decree No. 2001/2026, dated February 5, 2001, of the Guarantor, the 
Borrower was created, and the Borrower assumed TEAS’s functions, assets and liabilities 
relating to power transmission;
(D)
the Borrower has agreed to assume a portion of the TEAS Loan in the amount of 
$250,000,000; 
(E)
Republic of Turkey has agreed to assume under a separate Loan Assumption 
Agreement between itself and the Bank (State Loan Assumption Agreement) a portion of the 
TEAS Loan in an amount equal to $20,000,000;
(F)
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Loan Assumption Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
agree to the undertaking by the Borrower of the obligations in respect of the Loan as provided in 
this Loan Assumption Agreement;
(G)
the Bank has agreed to the request of the Borrower;
 
(H)
this Loan Assumption Agreement (the TEIAS Loan Assumption Agreement) and 
the State Loan Assumption Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of Turkey 
and the Bank supersede the Loan Agreement;
(I)
by an amended guarantee agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank of 
even date herewith (the Amended Guarantee Agreement) the Guarantor guaranteed all 
obligations of the Borrower contained or referred to in this TEIAS Loan Assumption Agreement 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Amended Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to enter into 
this Loan Assumption Agreement on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth  and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CPP” means the Corporate Performance Plan of the Borrower referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Decree” means  Decree No. 2001/2026, dated February 5,2001, of the 
Guarantor pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is operating;
(c)
“Electricity Market Law” means the Guarantor’s Law No. 4628 of March 3, 
2001, for the electricity market and related matters, as it may be amended, from time to time, by 
the Guarantor;
(d)
“fiscal year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting on January 1 and 
ending on December 31 of each year; 
(e)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(f)
“TEIAS” means Turkiye Elektrik Iletim S.A. established and operating under the 
Decree referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and includes any successor or successors 
thereto acceptable to the Bank; and
(g)   “Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance    with 
Section 5.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Borrower agrees to assume a portion of the TEAS Loan in an amount 
equal to two hundred and fifty million dollars ($250,000,000)  in accordance with the provisions 
of this Agreement. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred and fifty million dollars 
($250,000,000).
Section 2.02.(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
a special deposit account in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank or in the Central Bank of 
Turkey, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including protection against set off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of  
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its 
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B and C of  the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate financial, engineering, environmental and public utility 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for  the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B 
and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, following an exchange of views with the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 in each year, a CPP for the following fiscal year of 
the Borrower, which shall set forth, in a manner consistent with the Borrower’s obligations under 
this Agreement: (i) the transmission system expansion targets for the Borrower, including the 
components of the capital expenditures program to be carried out during the concerned fiscal 
year and the investments under such components to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; 
(ii) the financial targets for the Borrower, including a financial projection showing whether the 
Borrower would comply with its obligations under Section 5.04 (a) of this Agreement; and (iii) 
the Borrower’s levels of services, borrowing needs, financing plan and tariff levels and 
structures; 
(b)
obtain the Guarantor’s approval of the CPP and of the actions required 
thereunder, and furnish to the Bank the final version of each CPP prior to the start of the fiscal 
year covered by it; and
(c)
exchange views regularly with the Bank with respect to progress in the carrying 
out of the CPPs.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of Parts B and C 
of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01.  The Borrower shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environment and public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public 
utility practices.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall not, without the consent of the Bank, sell, lease, 
transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which shall be required for the 
efficient carrying out of its business and undertakings, including the carrying out of Parts B and 
C of the Project. 
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish, not later than June 1, 2002, and thereafter 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of  Parts B 
and C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank 
who shall be employed by March 31, 2002;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after 
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and a report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representative to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 5.02 
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
5.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each 
of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall take all actions required on its part to receive an 
unqualified audit opinion from the independent auditors to be employed pursuant to Section 5.01 
(b) (i) of this Agreement, for its financial statements for the calendar year 2003.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
produce, for each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 35% 
for the fiscal year 2002 and in each succeeding fiscal year of the average of the Borrower’s 
capital expenditures during the fiscal year concerned; (ii) maintain, beginning with the fiscal year 
2002, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.0; and (iii) ensure that the 
estimated net revenues of the Borrower shall be at least 1.5 times in 2002 and each succeeding 
fiscal year, the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any such fiscal 
year on all debt of the Borrower.
(b)
If any fiscal projections show that the Borrower would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section 5.04 for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such 
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all measures necessary on its part (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
customer deposits and customer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including  
administration, license fees, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation 
and other non-cash operating charges and income taxes), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash outflows 
other than capital expenditures, increase in working capital other 
than cash.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term “working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the end of 
each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other than 
cash which could in the ordinary course of business be converted into 
cash within twelve months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to 
operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(v)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will become due 
and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for 
payment within twelve (12) months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations, averaged over a three (3) year period covering the 
year concerned and the year preceding and the year succeeding such 
year.
(viii)
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in the 
ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve (12) 
months, including accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories 
and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within 
the next fiscal year.
(ix)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(x)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and 
net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including  license 
fees, administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(xi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to 
the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all actions required on its part to maintain 
accounts receivable level at not more than forty-five (45) days of average daily transmission 
charges during each calendar year.          
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the Electricity Market Law or the Decree or the 
by-laws of the Borrower governing the Borrower’s activities, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, shall have been further amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a 
way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out the covenants, 
agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.  
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. (a) This Loan Assumption Agreement shall become effective on the date 
upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of evidence that: 
(i)
the execution and delivery of this Loan Assumption Agreement on 
behalf of the Borrower has been duly authorized or ratified by all 
necessary governmental and corporate action; and
(ii)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the State Loan 
Assumption Agreement  and the Amended Guarantee Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Loan 
Assumption Agreement.
(b)
As part of such evidence, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the Borrower, 
that this Loan Assumption Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified and executed and 
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Turkiye Elektrik Iletim A.S.
General Mudurlugu
Inonu Bulvari, No. 27
Bahcelievler
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
TEK
42247 TEK TR
(312) 213 8870
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Ankara, 
Republic of Turkey as of the day and year first above written. 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber
Authorized Representative
TURKIYE  ELEKTRIK ILETIM A.S.
            By /s/ Ahmet Altinel
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Goods, including
215,000,000
(a) 100% of 
associated works and
foreign expenditures,
services
100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of other
items procured locally
with respect to contracts
for goods only; and
(b) 85% with respect
to turn-key contracts,
providing for the
supply of goods in
addition to associated
works and services
(2) Consultants’ services, 
13,000,000
100%
including hardware
and software, and 
training
(3) Unallocated
22,000,000
       TOTAL
250,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and 
(c)
the term “training” means courses, workshops, conferences and study tours.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for goods not exceeding $250,000 
equivalent; and (b) contracts for employment of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent each under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (a) implementing the new Electricity  
Market Law and restructuring the power sector; (b) establishing TEIAS as an efficient, low cost 
power transmission company and technical and market system operator; (c) developing an 
adequate transmission capacity in a timely and environmentally sustainable manner; and (d) 
establishing the financial viability of TEIAS.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Development of an Electricity Market
(1)
assistance for the design, creation and implementation of a competitive  electricity 
market in Turkey, including rules for: (a) administration; and (b) trading and settlement, through 
the provision of consultants’ services, training and goods;
(2)
support for the creation and organizational effectiveness of an Energy Market Regulatory 
Authority covering both electricity and gas, including, inter alia, (a) structured in-house and 
external staff training, and (b) twinning arrangements with other regulatory agencies;
(3)
institutional strengthening of the companies engaged in electricity generation, trading 
and distribution; and 
(4)
development  of an industry structure and entity grouping plan for the restructuring and 
privatization of the Borrower’s distribution and generation entities.
Part B: Institutional Reform
(1)
assistance for the establishment of the new transmission company including technical 
and market operating systems, and a management information system (MIS) through the 
provision of consultants’ services, goods and training; and
(2)
development of systems required for the establishment and implementation of a 
competitive electricity market.
Part C: Transmission Grid Program  
(1)
supply and installation of 380 kV transmission lines and sub-stations;  
(2)
supply and installation of 154 kV transmission line and sub-stations; 
(3)
supply and installation of information and control systems for the power dispatch and 
market operation; and
(4)
supply and installation of management information system (MIS).
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
October 15, 2002
6,525,000
April 15, 2003
6,720,000
October 15, 2003
6,915,000
April 15, 2004
7,120,000
October 15, 2004
7,330,000
April 15, 2005
7,545,000
October 15, 2005
7,770,000
April 15, 2006
8,000,000
October 15, 2006
8,235,000
April 15, 2007
8,480,000
October 15, 2007
8,730,000
April 15, 2008
8,990,000
October 15, 2008
9,255,000
April 15, 2009
9,530,000
October 15, 2009
9,810,000
April 15, 2010
10,100,000
October 15, 2010
10,395,000
April 15, 2011
10,705,000
October 15, 2011
11,020,000
April 15, 2012
11,345,000
October 15, 2012
11,680,000
April 15, 2013
12,025,000
October 15, 2013
12,380,000
April 15, 2014
12,750,000
October 15, 2014
13,125,000
April 15, 2015
13,520,000
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in 
Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A: General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997  and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
(a)
Bid invitations issued prior to June 30, 2000 for goods estimated to cost less than 
$2,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Bid invitations issued after June 30, 2000 for goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Bid invitations issued prior to June 30, 2000 for goods estimated to cost less than 
$2,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Bid invitations issued after June 30, 2000 for goods estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more 
awarded on the basis of the provisions of Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services for carrying out environmental analyses under Part C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection 
Services for design and implementation of training under Parts B and C of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training under Parts B and C of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for training under Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms required 
for Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms required 
for Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less 
than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall:  
(a)
continue to maintain, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, an adequately staffed  
steering committee under its General Manager or an Assistant General Manager and a member of 
the Board of Directors of the Borrower to oversee implementation of  the Project and to be 
responsible for the technical and administrative functions under the Project, including the 
procurement of goods thereunder; 
(b)
cause said steering committee to monitor the implementation of the objectives 
and achievement of the targets set forth in the CPP; 
(c)
continue to maintain its World Bank Project Group reporting to the General 
Manager or an Assistant General Manager of the Borrower:  (i) to supervise and coordinate the 
implementation aspects of the Project; and (ii) to coordinate the Borrower’s activities under Part 
B of the Project with the Program Coordination Unit within the Energy Market Regulatory 
Authority; 
(d)
undertake in conjunction with the Bank a study of its procurement procedures 
for the Project so as to accelerate the procurement process, and implement recommendations of 
this study, including hiring of procurement consultant, as needed; and
(e)
undertake in conjunction with the Bank a financial management assessment of 
TEIAS, and implement mutually agreed upon recommendations of the assessment.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
 prepare environmental analyses for investments under Part C of the Project in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with an action plan as agreed from time to 
time between the Borrower and the Bank; and 
(b)
implement the recommendations of such environmental analyses in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall, acting in conjunction with the Guarantor, take all actions required 
on its part to put into effect the independent operation of the transmission grid system, which 
shall comprise:
(a)
the preparation of a Balancing and Settlement Code by August 31, 2002; 
(b) 
the preparation of the Grid Code by August 31, 2002;
(c)
the initiation of acceptance tests of the market management system by September 
30, 2003;  and
(d)
the trial implementation of a new transmission tariff system by August 31, 2002.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, by October 31 of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31 of each year, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $20,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $27,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from 
the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
