CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4507-CO
Loan Agreement
(Cartagena Water Supply, Sewerage and  Environmental Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DISTRITO TURISTICO Y CULTURAL DE CARTAGENA DE INDIAS
Dated December 10, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4507-CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DISTRITO TURISTICO Y CULTURAL DE 
CARTAGENA DE INDIAS (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Aguas de Cartagena S.A., E.S.P. 
(ACUACAR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) available to ACUACAR, as set forth in this Agreement;
(C)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank 
(the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as provided in the Guarantee 
Agreement;
(D)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ACUACAR (the 
Project Agreement), ACUACAR has agreed to carry out the Project and to undertake such 
other obligations as set forth in the Project Agreement;
(E)
as a Distrito, a political subdivision of the Guarantor and one of the 
Territorial Entities referred to in Article 286 of the Guarantor's Constitution, the 
Borrower represents hereby to the Bank that it has met all standards and taken all 
action required from it as a borrower by the laws of the Guarantor, including but not 
limited to the Guarantor's Law No. 358, of January 30, 1997; 
(F)
the Borrower expects the Bank to rely on the aforesaid representation to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower;
(G)
the Borrower and ACUACAR are also carrying out a project to improve the 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
sanitary conditions in the Cartagena Bay drainage basin (the Cartagena Bay Project), 
which is being financed by a loan in the amount of twenty-four million three hundred 
thousand Dollars ($24,300,000) (the IDB Loan) made by the Inter-American Development 
Bank (the IDB) pursuant to the Loan Agreement No. 1089/OC-CO, dated March 14, 1998, 
between the Borrower and the IDB; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Contrato de Encargo Fiduciario" means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Decreto 352" means the Borrower’s Decreto No. 352, dated April 30, 1998, 
which approved the Borrower’s tax statute (Estatuto Tributario Distrital), including, 
inter alia, the levels of the property tax due in the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
"Guarantor's Counterpart Funds" means the funds referred to in Section 
6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Law 60" means the Guarantor’s Law No. 60, of August 12, 1993, which, 
inter alia, provides for the assignment of fiscal revenues of the Guarantor to its 
political subdivisions;
(g)
"Management Agreement" means the agreement, published in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette on June 21, 1995, between the Borrower and ACUACAR, which provides 
for the management by ACUACAR of water and sewerage services in the Borrower's 
territory, including maintenance and operation of the Borrower's facilities assigned 
to such services;
(h)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(k)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to ACUACAR. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
eighty-five million Dollars ($85,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during 
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause ACUACAR to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ACUACAR therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ACUACAR 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall enter into an agreement with ACUACAR, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank (the Subsidiary Agreement), providing, inter alia, for: (i) the obligation of 
the Borrower to transfer, on a non-reimbursable basis, to ACUACAR, during the period 
of execution of the Project: (A) the proceeds of the Loan and the Guarantor’s 
Counterpart Funds; and (B) counterpart funds for the Project, during each of the years 
from 2000 to 2002, in the amounts of at least $2,030,000 equivalent in 2000, 
$4,220,000 equivalent in 2001, and $1,330,000 equivalent in 2002, such amounts to be 
disbursed to ACUACAR as provided in the Contrato de Encargo Fiduciario; and (ii) the 
obligation of ACUACAR to: (A) use the amounts referred to in (i) (A) and (B) above 
exclusively for purposes of the Project; (B) contribute to the financing of the cost 
of the Project as provided in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (C) pay 
to the Borrower, as a contribution for the partial payment by the Borrower of the 
Borrower’s payment obligations under this Loan Agreement, an amount equivalent to 
$2,200,000 during each year in the period from January 31, 2005 through December 31, 
2011, such payment to be made in monthly installments equivalent to $183,333.30 each.
(c)
Without limitation to any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall enter into an agreement (Contrato de Encargo Fiduciario) with a financial 
institution (Fideicomisario), acceptable to the Bank, pursuant to which the Borrower 
shall establish a separate account (the Project Account), comprised of the Borrower’s 
funds referred to below, to be operated by such Fideicomisario for the sole purpose of 
paying on behalf of the Borrower, in accordance with irrevocable instructions of the 
Borrower, the amounts referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) (B) of this Agreement and 
the Guarantor's Counterpart Funds.  The Project Account shall be comprised of revenues 
of the Borrower under Law 60, property tax revenues, 10% of royalties (regalías) 
received by the Borrower pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law No. 141, of June 28, 1994, 
and the Guarantor's Counterpart Funds, and shall be in the following minimum amounts: 
(i) $1,720,000 equivalent in 1999; (ii) $5,430,000 equivalent in 2000; (iii) 
$8,780,000 equivalent in 2001; (iv) $6,200,000 equivalent in 2002; (v) $4,320,000 
equivalent in 2003; and (vi) $1,130,000 equivalent in 2004. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive 
or fail to enforce such agreement, or any provision thereof.
(e)
In order to comply with its obligations to provide counterpart funds 
under paragraph (c) above, the Borrower shall increase the rate of collection of the 
amounts due to the Borrower on account of property tax, as estimated by the latest 
applicable tax reassessment carried out by the Borrower, to at least 49% in 2000, and 
at least 51% in 2001 and each year thereafter.
(f)
Not later than January 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank, the Guarantor, through its 
National Planning Department, and ACUACAR on the availability, during the year in 
question, of the funds required to be provided by the Borrower as counterpart funds 
for the Project and for the service of the Borrower's debt under this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
ACUACAR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31, 2002, 
complete or cause to be completed the carrying out of an industrial wastes control 
program in the area of Mamonal, in accordance with the terms set forth in the 
agreement (Convenio de Concertación para una Producción Limpia), dated September 29, 
1995, among the Borrower, through its Environmental Administrative Department, the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Environment, Corporación Autónoma Regional del Canal del 
Dique, and several entities from the private sector; and (ii) furnish to the Bank, not 
later than March 1 of each year during the execution of such program, a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request, on the progress in the 
implementation of such program.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2003, complete or cause 
to be completed, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the construction of a water 
supply system for the communities of Punta Canoa, Manzanillo del Mar and Arroyo de 
Piedra, located in the north zone of the Borrower’s territory. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account and the Project 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than five months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
duly comply with the provisions of the Guarantor’s Law No. 358, of 
January 30, 1997; and
(b)
furnish to the Bank, not later than five months after the end of each 
fiscal year, a report on the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and paragraph (e) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ACUACAR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ACUACAR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the IDB Loan shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part or the IDB Loan shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.  This provision 
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that, 
notwithstanding the occurrence of any of the events listed in this paragraph, the 
Borrower and ACUACAR are carrying out the Cartagena Bay Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices.
(d)
The Management Agreement has been amended, abrogated, or suspended in a 
manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, may adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives of the Project.
(e)
The Certificado de Vigencias Futuras referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of 
this Agreement has been amended, abrogated, or suspended in a manner that, in the 
opinion of the Bank, may adversely affect the availability of the Guarantor’s 
Counterpart Funds as provided in such Section 6.01 (b).
(f)
The Contrato de Encargo Fiduciario has been amended, terminated, 
suspended, waived or failed to be enforced in a manner that may, in the opinion of the 
Bank, after consultation with the Guarantor, adversely affect the operation of the 
Project Account as required under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a), (d), (e) or (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower and the Guarantor. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement and the Contrato de Encargo Fiduciario have been 
executed on behalf of the respective parties thereto;
(b) 
the Guarantor has issued, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Guarantor’s Decretos No. 111 and 568, of January 15 and March 21, 1996, respectively, 
a Certificado de Vigencias Futuras providing for budgetary contributions for the 
Project (the Guarantor’s Counterpart Funds) to be made available to the Borrower in 
the period from 1999 through 2004 (not later than March 31 in each of the years from 
2000 through 2004), as follows: (i) at least $1,720,000 equivalent in 1999; (ii) 
$3,400,000 equivalent in 2000; (iii) at least $4,560,000 equivalent in 2001; (iv) at 
least $4,870,000 equivalent in 2002; (v) at least $4,320,000 equivalent in 2003; and 
(vi) at least $1,130,000 equivalent in 2004; and
(c) 
an amount equivalent to at least $200,000 has been deposited into the 
Project Account.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
ACUACAR, and is legally binding upon ACUACAR in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement and the Contrato de Encargo Fiduciario have 
been duly authorized or ratified by the respective parties thereto and are legally 
binding upon their respective parties in accordance with their terms; and
(c)
that the Certificado de Vigencias Futuras referred to in Section 6.01 (b) 
above has been validly issued by the Guarantor and constitutes a binding obligation of 
the Guarantor to provide the Guarantor’s Counterpart Funds.
Section 6.03. The date March 10, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Mayor of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Alcaldia Distrital de Cartagena de Indias
Plaza de la Aduana
Cartagena, Bolívar
Colombia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
DISTRITO TURISTICO Y CULTURAL DE
   CARTAGENA DE INDIAS
By /s/ Gina Benedetti de Vélez 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
  42,000,000
75%
(2)
Goods            
  28,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75 % of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
  7,100,000
100%
       and training (other
than for design and
supervision activities 
under Parts A and B 
of the Project and 
overall management
of the Project)
(4)
Fee
    850,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement 
(5)
Unallocated
  7,050,000
TOTAL
 85,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
the term "training" includes travel costs and per diems of trainees, and 
costs of training materials and facilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $8,500,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date which 
is twelve months before the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures for civil works under Part E of the Project, unless 
progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has occurred in the carrying out of the program 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals from the 
Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be supported 
by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so 
requested; and (ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the 
amount of $10,000,000.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the water and sewerage 
services in the territory of the Borrower and the sanitary conditions of the 
Borrower’s poorest population; (b) facilitate the environmental cleanup of water 
bodies surrounding the territory of the Borrower (Cartagena Bay, the Caribbean beaches 
and the Cienaga de la Virgen lake); and (c) improve the sustainability of water and 
sewerage services in the Borrower’s territory through a private sector participation 
model.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply System
Carrying out of the following activities for the expansion of the water supply 
system in the territory of the Borrower: (i) expansion and improvement of the water 
production system; (ii) expansion of the water service coverage; (iii) replacement of 
primary distribution mains; (iv) mitigation of adverse effects of water treatment 
sludge; (v) installation of remote control systems; and (vi) carrying out of a plan to 
reduce unaccounted water.
Part B:
Sewerage System
Carrying out of the following activities for the expansion of the sewerage 
system in the Cienaga de la Virgen basin: (i) enhancement of the conveyance capacity 
of the existing sewage collectors in the southwest, southeast and central parts of the 
Borrower’s territory which currently drain into the Cienaga de la Virgen basin; (ii) 
expansion of the secondary sewerage network in those parts of the Borrower’s 
territory, and in the Boquilla area, which currently drain into such basin; (iii) 
construction of new pressure lines and pumping stations; and (iv) construction of new 
gravity collectors in residential areas.
Part C:
Wastewater Conveyance System
Construction of the main wastewater conveyance system consisting of a 72" 
reinforced concrete cylindrical pressure pipe with a total length of about 23.85 
kilometers, including upgrading of the Paraíso pumping station, construction of the 
pipeline from such station to the treatment plant site, and construction of the 
effluent pipeline from the treatment plant to the submarine outfall under Part E of 
the Project.
Part D:
Wastewater Treatment
Construction of wastewater treatment facilities to remove floatable materials, 
grease, oil, sand and grit.  The facilities will include the following or equivalent 
installations: (i) six rotary screens which will remove rags, floatable materials and 
large solids, with an expected volume of screenings of about 8.5 cubic meters per day; 
and (ii) two vortex-type grit chambers which will remove about 5.1 cubic meter per day 
of sand and grit.
Part E:
Submarine Outfall
Construction of a submarine outfall for the safe discharge of pre-treated 
effluents into the Caribbean sea near Punta Canoa.  The outfall will be constructed 
using a 72" reinforced concrete pipe, will have a length of about 2,850 meters and its 
discharge point will be submerged at a depth of 20 meters.
Part F:
Industrial Wastewater Discharge Control
Provision of technical assistance for: (i) the carrying out of a survey to 
identify key sources of industrial pollution in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) 
the establishment of a system to regulate discharge of industrial wastes, either to 
the sewerage system or to receiving bodies; (iii) the establishment of a system to 
audit the status of industrial wastes discharge; (iv) the development of strategies 
for control of small and dispersed sources of industrial pollution discharging to the 
sewerage networks; and (v) selection and design of industrial waste pre-treatment 
processes.
Part G:
Environmental and Social Component
Carrying out of: (a) the environmental management program, described in Chapter 
V of the Environmental Impact Assessment Report prepared by ACUACAR in March 1999, for 
the activities under Parts B through F of the Project, consisting, inter alia, of: (i) 
environmental supervision during construction works under such Parts of the Project; 
(ii) restoration and conservation of the Cienaga de la Virgen nature reserve, 
including an environmental education program in communities living in such area; (iii) 
a monitoring program before and after construction of the submarine outfall under Part 
E of the Project to study the fate of pathogenic coliforms and other contaminants 
discharged through such outfall; and (iv) an environmental institutional strengthening 
program; and (b) the social management program, described in the Project Social 
Assessment Report dated October 1998, consisting, inter alia, of: (i) a social 
consultation and communication program; (ii) organization and strengthening of the 
communities of La Boquilla, Punta Canoa, Las Palmeras, El Pozon, and Manzanillo del 
Mar; (iii) construction, rehabilitation and equipping of community centers in La 
Boquilla, Punta Canoa, and Las Palmeras; (iv) support of in-house basic sanitation in 
La Boquilla and other poor neighborhoods in the Borrower’s territory; and (v) 
strengthening of the community relations unit of ACUACAR.
Part H:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance in the design and supervision of the 
activities under Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, the auditing of procurement 
procedures, and the overall management of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
  (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
     Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2005
through March 15, 2016
     3,540,000
On September 15, 2016
     3,580,000
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
