CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7006 - PH
Loan Agreement
(First National Roads Improvement and Management Project)
between
Republic of the Philippines
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 10, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7006 - PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 2000, between Republic of the Philippines (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHERAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 29, 1999 from the 
Borrower describing a program designed to establish management systems that would 
ensure the upgrading and preservation of the national roads system in an 
environmentally, socially and financially sustainable fashion (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s execution 
of the Program through a series of  loans over a period of approximately nine and 
one-half years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
(C)
 the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as 
follows: "(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means a person who on account of the acquisition of 
land, including plantation land, for purposes of establishing relocation sites under 
Part A of the Project had or would have his or her:  (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to 
use any land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual or 
perennial crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and “Affected Persons” 
means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected Person. 
(b)
“BIIP” means a Business Improvement Implementation Project satisfactory 
to the Bank, for the management of the  road system. 
(c)
“DENR” means the Borrower’s Department of Environment and Natural 
Resources, and any successor thereto. 
(d)
“DPWH” means the Borrower’s Department of Public Works and Highways, and 
any successor thereto.
(e)
“DTI” means the Borrower’s Department of Trade and Industry, and any 
successor thereto. 
(f)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4), set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(g)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
(h)
“Environmental Management Plan” with respect to any road upgrading, means 
the set of mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken 
during design, implementation and operation of such road upgrading to eliminate any 
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable 
levels, or to enhance positive impacts, including a plan of actions in accordance with 
the Memorandum of Agreement dated May 28, 1999 between DENR and DPWH needed to 
implement such measures;
(i)
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” with respect to any road upgrading, means a 
plan to: (a) take into full consideration the preferences of indigenous persons for 
mitigating and avoiding adverse effects caused or likely to be caused by the Project, 
and (b) ensure that indigenous people benefit from such road upgrading; 
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(k)
“Resettlement Policy” means the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, 
Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Affected Persons, satisfactory to the Bank, 
approved by DPWH dated November 10, 1999; and 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equivalent to one million five hundred thousand Dollars ($1,500,000).  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: a 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and the setting of limits on the Variable Rate 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate. (b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DPWH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, prior to commencing work on upgrading of roads 
under Part A of the Project and prior to any displacement of any Affected Persons: 
(i)
undertake the acquisition of all necessary land and other 
property, 
compensation therefor and resettlement in 
accordance with the principles and 
institutional procedures 
established in the Resettlement Policy.  
(ii)
ensure that Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled and 
rehabilitated 
in accordance with the Resettlement Policy; 
(iii)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for each road to be upgraded 
where the number 
of Affected Persons is higher than 200, a detailed 
resettlement action plan 
acceptable to the Bank documenting the 
implementation arrangements for 
resettlement, including 
compensation, relocation and rehabilitation of 
Affected 
Persons; 
(iv)
complete the implementation of such resettlement action plan in a 
manner 
satisfactory to the Bank;  
(v)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for each road to be upgraded, an 
Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, and 
thereafter 
implement such Plan accordingly; and
(vi)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for each road to be upgraded 
where there are 
more than ten households in a “purok" or "sitio" 
comprising indigenous 
persons, a separate social impact 
assessment, and an Indigenous Peoples Plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month following the 
period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen 
which will make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:  
(a)
a financial management system for operation of the Project satisfactory 
to the Bank has been established and is in effect; 
(b)
the consultants for the supervision of road upgrading and preventive 
maintenance contracts, as well as for coordination and integration of the BIIPs, have 
been appointed in accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Boulevard
Manila, Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
SECFIN
40268CB-CONF
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Jose Pardo 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. 
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under                 50,000,000
50%
Parts A and B
(2)
Works  under                  45,000,000
50%
Part C
(3)
Goods
  10,000,000
70%
(4)
Consultants’
  33,500,000
70%
services and training
(5)
Fee
   1,500,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
  10,000,000
TOTAL
 150,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 1, 2000.   
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures for (i) works estimated to cost less 
than $5,000,000; (ii) goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000; (iii) employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 each; (iv) 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$50,000 each; and (v) training.  
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko 
Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amount to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawals on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of  Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$50,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $13,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the first phase of the Borrower’s 
Program by establishing management systems that will ensure the upgrading and 
preservation of an improved national road system in an environmentally, socially and 
financially sustainable fashion.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Road Upgrading
Carrying out upgrading works on approximately 530 km of the following national 
roads selected under the Program: (i) La Trinidad-Mount Data section of the Halsema 
Highway in Benguet Province; (ii) Buug-Kabasalan section of the Zamboanga 
City-Pagadian Road in Zamboanga Del Sur Province; (iii) Calinan-Buda section of the 
Davao-Bukidnon Road in Davao City; (iv) various sections of the Surigao-Davao Coastal 
Road in various Provinces in Mindanao; (v) the Sulop-Malita section of the 
Malalag-Jose Abad Santos Road in Davao Del Sur Province; (vi) a section of the San 
Enrique-Vallerhermoso Road between La Castellana and the eastern provincial boundary 
of Negros Occidental Province; (vii) Hinobaan-Basay section of the Kabankalan-Basay 
Road in Negros Occidental and Negros Oriental Provinces; (viii) a section of the 
Maramag-Kibawe Road in Bukidnon Province; and (ix) Buda-Maramag section of 
Davao-Bukidnon Road in Bukidnon Province.
Part B:
Long-Term Performance-Based Maintenance
Carrying out maintenance works on approximately 230 km of national roads under 
two pilot long-term performance-based contracts.
Part C:
Preventive Maintenance
Carrying out preventive maintenance works on selected national roads under the 
Program. 
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out of BIIPs which aim at improvement of:
(a)
processes for managing, planning, building and operating of highways; and
(b)
processes for managing public works, including finances, physical and 
human resources, information and institutional strategy.
Part E:
Policy and Institutional Reform
1.
 Establishment of a sustainable financing mechanism, such as a road fund or 
equivalent, dedicated to preserving the national roads, to be funded from road user 
charges and based on the actual level of maintenance needs and road usage.
2.
Preparation of detailed design and phased implementation plans for 
reorganization of the management of the national roads system, including plans for 
establishment of an independent organization such as a road maintenance authority to 
commercialize the management of the national road system and separate policy and 
planning functions in government from services delivery, that would be largely 
privatized.
3.
Development of a strategy to strengthen the road construction and consulting 
industries in order to commercialize functions of DPWH. 
4.
Carrying out a communication campaign to develop support of stakeholders for 
reform.
**********
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,  2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each August 15 and February 15
Beginning February 15, 2008 through 
February 15, 2020
4%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.  
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $108,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i)  each contract for goods and works to be procured pursuant 
to paragraph B.1 of this Section; (ii) works estimated to cost more than $4,000,000; 
(iii) the two contracts under Part B of the Project; and (iv) the first three 
contracts under Part C of the Project; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for (a) supervision of construction in respect of Halsema Highway, 
Maramag – Kibawe Road and Davao-Bukidnon Road to be upgraded under Part A of the 
Project;  (b) coordination and integration of the BIIPs under Part D of the Project; 
and (c) Part E of the Project may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall through DPWH:
(a) 
maintain the following implementing units:
(i)
Project Management Office for Part A of the Project; 
(ii)
the Policy Team for reform of DPWH and Planning Service under Part 
E of the 
Project; 
(iii)
Bureau of Maintenance of DPWH or its successor for Parts B and C 
of the 
Project; 
(iv)
Road Information Management Support System Project Office of DPWH 
for Part D 
of the Project (other than for the Environmental Impact 
Assessment); and 
(v)
the Environmental Impact Assessment Project Office or its 
successor for the 
Environmental Strengthening and Social Development 
BIIP; each implementing 
unit headed by individuals with 
qualifications and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank 
and assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
retain during implementation of the Project, the consultants for 
coordination and integration of the BIIPs under Part D of the Project. 
(c)
during implementation of each BIIP, designate and at all times maintain a 
counterpart satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Within one year after effectiveness of the Project, the Borrower shall appoint 
consultants in accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to prepare 
an information campaign.  The Borrower shall carry out said information campaign, 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon, in accordance with a schedule 
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
By December 31, 2000, the Borrower shall cause DPWH in consultation with DTI to 
prepare a strategy for strengthening the road construction and road transportation 
consulting industries.  Promptly thereafter, the Borrower shall implement said 
strategy in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall cause DPWH:
(a)
to make available to the public an annual report on the Preventive 
Maintenance Technical Audit;
(b)
to furnish to the Bank not later than July 31, 2000,  April 30, 2001 and 
April 30, 2002, the preventive maintenance works programs under Part C of the Project 
to be carried out in fiscal years 2001,  2002 and 2003, respectively; and
(c)
to ensure that the road sections selected for preventive maintenance to 
be carried out under Part C of the Project meet minimum traffic thresholds 
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
Promptly after establishment of the road fund or other financing mechanism to be 
funded from road user charges referred to in Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause DPWH to promulgate the implementing rules and regulations, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the road fund, including rules and regulations for the Board of the road 
fund.   
6.
After establishment of the road fund or other financing mechanism to be funded 
from road user charges, the Borrower shall propose to its Congress annual budget 
allocations for preservation of national roads to cover, together with the resources 
of the road fund, at least 60% of routine, periodic and preventive maintenance 
requirements.   
7.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the implementation out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
