CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4531-BR
Loan Agreement
(Ceará Integrated Water Resources Management Project - PROGERIRH)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF CEARÁ
Dated February 10, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4531-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF CEARÁ (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has adopted a policy for its water sector, the overall 
concept, actions, and objectives of which were presented to the Bank by the Borrower’s 
Governor in a letter dated August 5, 1999 (the Water Sector Policy Letter); 
WHEREAS (B) by the Loan Agreement dated December 12, 1997 between the Bank and 
the Borrower, the Bank made a loan to the Borrower for the Ceará Water Pilot Project, 
which provides the necessary studies and other information to serve as the basis and 
lessons for the carrying out of the Project (as hereinafter defined); 
WHEREAS (C) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS (D) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Currency Pool Loans" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operating Plan " means each plan referred to in Section 3.12 (c) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
"Cariri Region" means an area comprising the Cariri drainage basin and 
those areas contributing to the underlying acquifers of that area including the 
Chapada de Araripe region;
(c)
"Coastal and Littoral Zone means an area comprising the coastal and 
littoral zone of the Borrower along the Atlantic ocean;
(d)
"COGERH" means Companhia de Gestão dos Recursos Hídricos do Ceará, the 
Borrower’s water resources management company established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Law Number 12,217 of November 18, 1993;
(e)
"Dam Safety Review Panel" means the panel of experts in dam safety 
referred to in Section 3.10 (f) of this Agreement;
(f)
"EIAR" means environmental impact assessment report, a document 
containing, inter alia, a description of expected environmental and social impacts to 
derive from a Subproject (as hereinafter defined), the mitigation measures designed to 
address those impacts, and an EMP (as hereinafter defined) for that Subproject; 
(g)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(h)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
"EMP" means environmental management plan, a plan contained in an EIAR 
for the implementation of the mitigation measures designed to address the 
environmental and social impacts identified in such EIAR; 
(j)
"ERCs" means environmental rules for contractors, the set of specific 
environmental rules to be followed by contractors when carrying out works under 
Subprojects and included in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
"First-year Annual Operating Plan" means an Annual Operating Plan 
covering the twelve-month period starting from the date of this agreement and related 
to the first year of Project implementation;
(l)
"First-year Subproject" means a project selected by the Borrower prior to 
the date of this Agreement for initiation in the first year of Project implementation 
under Part B of the Project for the following locations: Aracoiaba, Catu Cinzento, 
Malcozinhado and Carmina;
(m)
"First-year Subprojects-DARs" means the dam assessement reports prepared 
for First-year Subprojects containing the recommendations of a dam assessment review 
panel employed on the same basis as set forth in Section 3.10 (f) of this Agreement;
(n)
"First-year Subprojects-EIARs" means the EIARs describing the expected 
environmental and social impacts from the First-year Subprojects, the mitigation 
measures designed to address those impacts and the corresponding  EMPs; 
(o)
"First-year Subproject-RAPs" means the Resettlement Action Plans (as 
hereinafter defined) prepared for the First-year Subprojects and dated August, 1999;
(p)
"FUNCEME" means Fundação Cearense de Meteorologia e Recursos Hídricos, 
the Borrower’s meteorological and water resources foundation established pursuant to 
Law Number 9,618 of September 18 1972, as amended by Article 9 of Law Number 11,380 of 
December 15, 1987;
(q)
"Metropolitan Basin of Fortaleza" means the hydrographic watersheds that 
drain the geographical area comprising the municipalities in and around the 
metropolitan area of Fortaleza;
(r)
"MIS" means the monitoring and information system referred to in Section 
3.11 of this Agreement;
(s)
"Operating Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(t)
"Operational Manual" means the Project operations and implementation 
manual referred to in Section  3.03 of this Agreement;
(u)
"Participating Entity" means any the following entities: COGERH, FUNCEME 
and SOHIDRA (as hereinafter defined);
(v)
"POM" means the plan for operation and maintenance referred to in Part 
A.2 (a) of the Project;
(w)
"Post-selected Subproject" means a project selected by the Borrower after 
the date of this Agreement, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the 
Operational Manual, and comprising the activities set forth in Parts B, C, D, E or F 
of the Project;
(x)
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated October 15, 1999 from 
the Borrower’s Secretary of Water Resources to the Bank, setting forth the indicators 
to be used in monitoring the progress in the implementation of the Project and in 
evaluating its results, and specific indicators to be complied by COGERH pursuant to 
the relevant Operating Agreement;
(y)
"REAR" means regional environmental impact assessment report, a document 
dated April 19, 1999 and issued by SRH, which describes the potential cumulative 
environmental and social impacts of Subprojects and containing recommendations to 
mitigate such impacts;
(z)
"REMP" means regional environmental management program dated April 19, 
1999 and issued by SRH, a document resulting from the carrying out of the REAR and 
containing the detailed phases for the implementation of the mitigation measures 
designed to address the environmental and social impacts identified in the REAR; 
(aa) 
"Resettlement Action Plan" means a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the carrying out of resettlement activities required under a Subproject and 
containing, inter alia: land surveys; a household cadaster; estimated financial value 
of assets that will be lost; a socioeconomic baseline survey; eligibility criteria for 
compensation, assistance and rehabilitation entitlements; the relevant legal 
framework; land acquisition, transfer and titling arrangements; safety and security 
arrangements; institutional arrangements; provisions for the participation of and 
consultation with affected persons in the design and implementation of the plan; 
grievance procedures; implementation timetable correlated with the Subproject 
construction timetable; a detailed budget; and monitoring and evaluation arrangements 
of resettlement activities; 
(bb)
"Resettlement Framework" means the document dated August 10, 1999 and 
issued by SRH, specifying the resettlement policies, planning principles, 
institutional arrangements, procurement arrangements and design criteria satisfactory 
to the Bank that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of any Resettlement 
Action Plan which may be required under a Subproject, such Resettlement Framework to 
be comprised of, inter alia, a resettlement operational manual,  model terms of 
reference for resettlement planning and the corresponding Decrees of the Borrower 
establishing community mobilization committees and community development committees;
(cc)
"River Basin Committees" means the participatory advisory bodies 
comprised of stakeholders within each river basin, established for the purpose of, 
inter alia, assisting in the management of the water resources of that basin;
(dd)
"Selected Micro Watersheds" means the following four micro watersheds: 
(i) Riacho do Meio (Caridade Municipality); (ii) Riacho Lagoa Nova (Capistrano 
Municipality); (iii) Riacho São Gonçalo (Palmácia/Maranguape Municipalities); and (iv) 
Riacho Palmatória (Aratuba/ItaSPMUna Municipalities), or any other additional 
micro-watersheds that may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(ee)
"SOHIDRA" means "Superintendência de Obras Hidráulicas" the Borrower’s 
superintendency of hydraulic works established pursuant to Law Number 11,380 of 
December 15, 1987;
(ff)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(gg)
"SPMU - Special Project Management Unit" means the unit referred to in 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(hh)
"SRH" means Secretaria dos Recursos Hídricos, the Borrower’s Secretariat 
of Water Resources; and
(ii)
"Subproject" means either a First-year Subproject or a Post-selected 
Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and thirty six 
million Dollars ($136,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, 
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%).  On each of 
the dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SRH, with the assistance of the Participating Entities 
pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, all with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance Water Sector Policy Letter and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, resettlement, environmental and water resources management 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be 
carried out, in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Operational Manual) containing, inter alia: (a) detailed arrangements for the overall 
carrying out of the Project; (b) a description of the Project’s decision making bodies 
and their corresponding responsibilities; (c) the mechanisms and procedures to be 
followed by these bodies, and the relevant implementation schedule; (d) the procedures 
and criteria for the selection and carrying out of Subprojects; (e) the plans, 
instruments, and procedures related to dam safety issues; and (f) the procedures and 
criteria for training, technical assistance, environmental assessment and 
corresponding mitigation measures (including the ERCs), resettlement and other 
activities to be carried out under the Project.  In case of any conflict between the 
terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement  shall prevail.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
For the purposes of providing the Borrower with general guidance in 
respect of the Project, establish and thereafter maintain within SRH, until the 
completion of the Project, an advisory body with terms of reference as set forth in 
the Operational Manual, and the following composition: (i) two representatives from 
SRH, one of such representatives to be the President of such advisory body; (ii) one 
representative from each of the Participating Entities; (iii) the Coordinator-General 
of the SPMU; and (iv) two independent experts with experience and qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank and appointed by the Borrower’s Governor.
(b)
Establish and thereafter maintain within SRH, until the completion of the 
Project, the SPMU with responsibilities, structure and functions as set forth in the 
relevant sections of the Operational Manual and with staff in adequate numbers and 
with adequate qualifications, for the purpose of, inter alia: (i) assisting SRH in the 
overall coordination and carrying out of the Project; and (ii) preparing the Annual 
Operating Plans and submitting them to the Bank for approval.
Section 3.05. (a) For the purposes of the overall carrying out of the Project, 
the Borrower, through SRH, shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Operating Agreement), with each Participating Entity to govern such entity’s 
overall responsibilities in the carrying out of its activities under the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under each Operating Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the Operating 
Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06.  Not later than January 31, 2002, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the POM, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter, 
carry out the POM in accordance with its terms as approved by the Bank.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of carrying out Part A.5 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than January 31, 2002, furnish to the Bank the strategy and the 
plan referred to in Part A.5 of the Project, as such strategy and plan shall have been  
prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and, 
thereafter exchange views with the Bank thereon. 
(b)
If the plan referred to in paragraph (a) above is not satisfactory to the 
Bank, the Bank shall so inform the Borrower, and the Borrower shall establish a panel 
of experts with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for the 
purpose of making recommendations to the Borrower in respect of bulk water tariffs. A 
copy of such recommendations shall be promptly furnished to the Bank.
(c) 
In the months of August of the years 2002 and 2004, respectively, the 
Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank, the progress made by the Borrower in 
adopting bulk water tariffs as a result of the process set forth in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) above. 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of carrying out Part A.6 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than 180 days after the date of this Agreement, through SRH, 
furnish to the Bank a proposal for the reformulation of the Borrower's legal and 
institutional framework;
(b)
not later than 180 days after the date of this Agreement, through SRH, 
submit to the Bank, for approval, the location of the areas where market-based 
mechanisms for water allocation may be piloted; and 
(c)
not later than March 31, 2001, and on the basis of the legal and 
institutional proposal referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, submit to its 
Legislative Assembly a bill of law allowing for the implementation of the 
aforementioned mechanisms.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of carrying out a First-year Subproject, the 
Borrower, through SRH, shall carry out, respectively, the First-year Subproject-DAR, 
the First-year Subproject-RAP and the relevant EMP contained in the corresponding 
First-year Subproject-EAIR by taking into account the REAR and the REMP, respectively, 
all in strict compliance with their own terms.
Section 3.10. For the purposes of carrying out Parts B, C, D, E or F of the 
Project:
(a)
The Borrower shall submit each Subproject to the Bank for approval before 
submitting any application for the withdrawal of Loan proceeds from the Loan Account 
or before disbursing funds from the Special Account for the purpose of financing 
expenditures under the relevant Subproject.
(b)
When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, the Borrower, 
through SRH, shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, and in conformity with the relevant provisions of the 
Operational Manual, containing, inter alia: (i) a description of the Subproject and 
expenditures to be incurred therein, including those expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) a detailed description of how the 
relevant Subproject meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual; (iii) a plan for the administration, operation and maintenance of the proposed 
Subproject; (iv) an evaluation on the legal and physical availability of the land 
necessary for the purpose of the Subproject; (v) whenever necessary, evidence that the 
necessary water rights for the Subproject have been obtained; (vi) evidence that the 
Borrower holds the corresponding environmental permits required for the execution of 
the works planned under the proposed Subproject; (vii) whenever applicable, evidence 
of compliance with paragraph (c) of this Section; (viii) whenever a Subproject 
requires the undertaking of environmental protection measures and/or resettlement of 
population: (A) evidence of compliance with any recommendation for adoption of advance 
monitoring and mitigation measures set forth in the REMP; (B) the EIAR (which shall 
take into account the findings and recommendations set forth in the REAR and the 
REMP); and/or (C) Resettlement Action Plan, as such EIAR and/or plan shall have been 
prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and, in the 
case of a Resettlement Action Plan, in accordance with the Resettlement Framework; and 
(ix) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request in respect of the 
relevant Subproject.
(c)
Whenever a Subproject requires the undertaking of environmental 
protection measures and/or resettlement of population in accordance with the provision 
of paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the corresponding EMP 
(which shall take into account the recommendations set forth in the REMP), and/or 
carry out the Resettlement Action Plan in a manner and within a timetable satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
(d)
The Borrower shall include in any contract for works under Subprojects 
covenants, satisfactory to the Bank, requiring that the contractor, upon unearthing or 
locating any structure or artifacts of cultural, historical, archeological or 
paleontological significance, shall bring them to the attention of the authorities, 
shall suspend work in the area in question and shall fully comply with any 
instructions from such authorities. 
(e)
If during the carrying out of any work under a Subproject, there is, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Bank, a risk that a critical natural habitat (as such 
term is defined in the Operational Manual) not identified in the relevant EIAR may be 
significantly converted or degraded during the course of the carrying out of a 
Subproject, such work shall be suspended until an alternative acceptable to the Bank 
is identified by the Borrower.
(f)
Without limitation upon any other provision of this Agreement and 
whenever a Subproject includes the construction of a dam which is fifteen meters or 
more in height, or which is between ten and fifteen meters in height and presents, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Bank, special design complexities, the Borrower shall: 
(i) establish and thereafter maintain during the design and initial operation of such 
Subproject, a Dam Safety Review Panel under terms of reference and arrangements 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) cause the relevant dam, reservoir and related  structures 
to be periodically inspected by qualified professionals under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the 
Operational Manual, in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the 
condition of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods 
of operation of the  same, which may endanger their safety; (iii) furnish to the Bank 
for its review the periodic reports of the Dam Safety Review Panel (to be issued in 
accordance with its terms of reference) and of the professionals referred to in 
subparagraph (ii) above, together with the Borrower’s own comments; and (iv) no later 
than six months before the expected completion of the relevant dam, reservoir and 
related structures, propose to the Bank for its review and approval, appropriate 
arrangements for their operation and maintenance.  In the carrying out of First-year 
Subprojects, the Borrower shall maintain the Dam Safety Review Panel created under the 
Ceará Urban Development Project (PROURB) and comply with the requirements set forth 
above, including the recommendations set forth in the First-year Subprojects-DARs.
(g)
Notwithstanding the above, after the dates specified in Section 3.07 (c) 
of this Agreement, the Bank may refrain from approving new Subprojects if it is not 
satisfied with the progress made by the Borrower in adopting bulk water tariffs 
pursuant to the results of the exchange of views between the Borrower and the Bank or 
the recommendations of the panel of experts, as the case may be, in accordance with 
the provisions of Sections 3.07 (a) and (b) of this Agreement, respectively.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall maintain, during the implementation of the 
Project, a computerized management information system, satisfactory to the Bank (the 
MIS), which provides the following Project information: (i) Annual Operating Plans; 
(ii) progress and monitoring reports; (iii) expenditures; (iv) financial management 
and socio-economic data; (v) eligibility criteria for accessing Project funds; and 
(vi) base-line data (perfil de entrada) related to the population benefiting from 
Subprojects.
Section 3.12. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions and the provisions of Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through SRH, shall:
(a)
In the months of July and January of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank reports of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request on the progress in the implementation of the Project 
during the previous six months, such progress to be measured on the basis of the 
indicators set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter.
(b)
In the months of February and August (except in the month of August of 
the years 2002 and 2004, respectively) of each year during Project implementation, 
hold reviews with the Bank based on the reports referred to in paragraph (a) above 
and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been 
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, during the reviews referred to in this 
paragraph, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement 
of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable 
agreed upon during such reviews.
(c)
In the month of August during each year of Project implementation, 
furnish to the Bank an annual program satisfactory to the Bank (the Annual Operating 
Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities (including Subprojects) to be 
carried out during the next calendar year, including the cost thereof, and, 
thereafter, carry out the Project in accordance with the terms of such Annual 
Operating Plan and this Agreement.
Section 3.13. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SRH, shall:
(a)
except with respect to the Subprojects, prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in the SPMU a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than one year 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and 
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
that each of the Operating Agreements has been entered into between the 
parties thereto; and
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been validly registered by the 
Borrower’s Central Bank.
Section 5.03. The date May 10, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Borrower’s Secretary of Water Resources is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaria dos Recursos Hídricos
Av. General Afonso A. Lima
Centro Administrativo Virgílio Távora
Ed. SEDUC, Bloco C, 1° andar
Cambeba
60819-900 Fortaleza - CE 
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Fortaleza, Ceará, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of  the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Authorized Representative
STATE OF CEARÁ
By /s/ Tasso Jereissati
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
 General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   82,800,000
50%
(2)
Goods
    5,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and
80% of local expen-
ditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
    26,800,000
100%
and training
(4)
Incremental Recurrent
     1,700,000
100% up to
Costs
$700,000 in the
aggregate; thereafter
50% up to 1,200,000
in the aggregate; and
20% thereafter
(5)
Fee
     1,360,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    17,840,000
TOTAL
   136,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means incremental costs related to 
the operation, management and supervision of the Project, including administrative and 
service personnel, maintenance and supplies, communication services and spare parts 
for office equipment and vehicles.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of thirteen million and six hundred 
thousand Dollars ($13,600,000), may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures after the twelve months before the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
for a Subproject, unless such Subproject has been approved by the Bank. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (a) civil works 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent (except the first three contracts for works to 
be awarded pursuant to Section C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (b) goods costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent (except the first three contracts for goods to be 
awarded pursuant to Section C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (c) services of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (d) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the 
amount of $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the amount of 
$18,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the amount of $20,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the sustainable water supply 
for multiple uses and improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s integrated water 
resources management system; (b) stimulate multiple use, and efficient and 
participatory management of the Borrower’s water resources; and (c) promote improved 
management of soil and vegetation in tributary watersheds to minimize erosion and 
enhance natural water storage mechanisms through the adequate management of critical 
micro-basins and ground water resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of the Management and Institutional Framework 
1.
Hydro-meteorological information system  
(a)
Inventorying, prioritization and classification of hydro-meteorological 
information of the Borrower’s agencies as to potentialities for the generation or use 
of information. 
(b)
Based on the above activities, acquisition and installation of 
hydro-metereological information system components to provide a comprehensive and 
accessible data base of water-related natural resources information to both the public 
and the private sector.
2.
Sustainable Operation and Maintenance of Bulk Water System
(a)
Development and implementation of a plan for operation and maintenance of 
a bulk water system.
(b)
Provision of assistance to COGERH in the development of sustainable 
preventative maintenance practices, establishment of depreciation reserves for 
extraordinary maintenance and equipment replacement, maintenance training programs, 
and emergency response strategies for the bulk water system.
3.
Dam Safety and Inspection Program  
Development of a comprehensive program of inventorying, risk classification, 
inspection and rehabilitation prioritization for about 200 dams and reservoirs located 
within the Borrower’s territory.
4.
Basin Committee Organization and Training
Provision of assistance for the enhancement of the existing program of formation 
and development of capacity within River Basin Committees to participate in a 
meaningful way in the management of water resources within the river basins of the 
Borrower.
5.
Water Tariff Implementation
Continuation of the program of implementation of bulk water tariffs through the 
development of: (a) a strategy that reflects the real cost of providing water services 
and a socially viable system of tariffs and cross-subsidies where necessary; and (b) a 
plan to implement the proposed strategy.  
6.
Market-Based Water Allocation Mechanisms
Develop a pilot program, including the selection of areas and the necessary 
legal and institutional framework, to test and evaluate the use of market-based 
mechanisms for water  allocation to meet changing demands and drought crisis.
7.
Public Information and Education Program  
Design and implementation of a public information and education program for the 
purposes of, inter alia, educating the general public, opinion-makers and the media 
regarding the value of water resources and the necessity for conserving and 
maintaining the quality of those resources
Part B:
Strategic Reservoir Network
Carrying out of projects comprising the design and construction of key 
infrastructure such as reservoirs, water pipelines and related infrastructure, 
critical to the provision of water supply to rural areas subject to droughts. 
Part C:
Integration of Selected River Basins
Carrying out of projects comprising the following actitivites:
1.
Carrying out of a detailed analysis of inter-basin water resources transfer 
proposals to: (a) evaluate environmental, social, technical and economic feasibility 
of such proposals; and (b) develop long range schedules for the implementation of 
those options that are feasible. 
2.
Preparation of final designs and construction of key inter-basin transfer 
systems, including the development of operation and maintenance plans for these 
facilities. 
3.
Construction of priority infrastructure to assure an adequate water supply for 
industrial, municipal and domestic purposes within the Metropolitan Basin of 
Fortaleza.
Part D:
Restoration of Existing Bulk Water Infrastructure
Carrying out of projects comprising the rehabilitation of critical water 
resource storage and delivery systems within the Borrower’s territory. 
Part E:
Micro Watershed Management Pilot
Carrying out of projects in the Selected Micro Watersheds comprising the 
following actitivites:
1.
Establishment of a methodology for prevention of the effects of degradation of 
vegetation and its rehabilitation, thus mitigating adverse environmental impacts.
2.
Development of simple techniques for soil and water conservation in the micro 
watersheds by using local human and natural resources.
3.
Restoration of native vegetation along watercourses and steep slopes.
4.
Adoption of small erosion control and water retention structures to increase 
interseasonal water availability and improve the conditions for animal husbandry.
Part F:
Groundwater Management
Carrying of projects comprising the following activities:
1.
Cariri Region
Collection and production of the relevant data regarding the groundwater 
situation in the Cariri region, especially regarding the Chapada do Araripe and its 
link to the Cariri plain, and development and implemention of an action plan to 
improve groundwater management. 
2.
Coastal and Littoral Zone
Analysis and implementation of recommendations developed under the Ceará Water 
Pilot Project for the development and implementation of a coastal and littoral zone 
groundwater management plan, including the preparation and implementation of a program 
for the identification and preservation of critical recharge zones to assure the long 
term sustainability of coastal and littoral zone groundwater resources. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2005
   through November 15, 2014
6,800,000
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the Loan on the 
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than  thirteen years 
1.00
before maturity 
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
In the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part B, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. For purposes of the 
Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes includes the Guarantor’s 
Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a 
Renovação da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 
30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after 
January 1, 1988. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent, and works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more per contract but 
less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$17,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods 
and works under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the 
Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures acceptable to 
the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works procured under Part B.1 
of this section; and (b) the first three contracts for goods and the first three 
contracts for works under Part C.1 of this section; the procedure set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
 Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services including auditing, monitoring the implementation of tariff policies 
and estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
