CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4603-IN
Loan Agreement
(Second Powergrid System Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
POWERGRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Dated June 13, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4603-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POWERGRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) India, acting by its President (the Guarantor), and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
"Eastern Region" means the Eastern Region of India comprising the States 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
of Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, Sikkim and West Bengal;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), and (3), set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures" means the environment 
and social policy and procedures set out in a Report dated April 1998 approved by the 
Borrower setting out, inter alia, the policies and procedures of carrying out 
environmental and social assessments of Investment Projects, preparing environmental 
mitigation plans, and where applicable, resettlement and rehabilitation plans and 
other development plans for people adversely affected as a result of the 
implementation thereof, carrying out consultations, processing and redressing 
grievances, and monitoring related impacts;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning on 
April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year;
(f)
"Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement between India and the Bank of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement;
(g)
"Investment Program" means the Borrower’s Investment Program dated April 
7, 1998 setting forth its ten year investment program for the transmission sub-sector 
and other approved activities as such Program may be updated from time to time;
(h)
"Investment Project" means an Investment Project that meets the 
eligibility criteria set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and to be carried out by 
the Borrower under Parts A, B and C (5) of the Project set out in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement utilizing the proceeds of the Loan;
(i)
"Memorandum and Articles of Association" means the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of the Borrower as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(j)
"North Eastern Region" means the North Eastern Region of India comprising 
the States of Arunchal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and 
Tripura;
(k)
"Northern Region" means the Northern Region of India comprising the 
States of Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and 
Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal, and the Union Territory of Chandigarh;
(l)
"Project Area" means the area comprising the Guarantor’s States of Andhra 
Pradesh, Bihar, Chattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, 
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttar 
Pradesh, Uttaranchal and West Bengal and such other states or Union Territories of the 
Guarantor as the Bank may agree;
(m)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.06 of this Agreement;
(n)
"Security Documents" means documents to be executed, inter alia, by the 
Borrower for purposes of providing the Bank a pari passu interest in the liens created 
on its assets as security for debt existing as of the date of this Agreement in order 
to equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other 
charges on, the Loan;
(o)
"Southern Region" means the Southern Region of India comprising the 
States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, and the Union Territory of 
Pondicherry;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(q)
"Western Region" means the Western Region of India comprising the States 
of Chattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, and Union Territories of 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred fifty million dollars ($450,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); and (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not 
apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and utilities practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Investment Projects to be carried out by 
the Borrower under Parts A, B and C (5) of the Project shall meet the eligibility 
criteria set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and 
of each Investment Project (including its costs and benefits to be derived from it) 
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices 
the operations and financial condition of the Borrower and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project and each Investment 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles, acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
opinion on such statements and a report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for the Bank’s review and 
comments, not later than December 31 of each year, starting with December 31, 2001, 
its financial projections and an updated Investment Program covering the next ten 
Fiscal Years, including an adequate financing plan for implementing such Investment 
Program.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to maintain its 
accounts receivable at a level not exceeding an amount equivalent to the proceeds of 
its transmission and other services for the four preceding months.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
take all such measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure 
and levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce, starting with the fiscal 
year beginning April 1, 2001 funds from internal cash generation equivalent to not 
less than twenty percent (20%) of the annual average of the Borrower’s capital 
expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred during the previous, current and 
following fiscal year.
(b)
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i)
the term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between: (A) the sum of gross revenues from all sources related to 
the Borrower’s operations, contributions in aid of construction, 
net non-operating income and any reduction in non-cash working 
capital; and (B) the sum of all expenses of the Borrower’s 
operations, including maintenance and administration (excluding 
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), interest and 
other charges on debt (excluding interest financed under a loan 
contract), repayment of loans (including sinking fund payments, if 
any), all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends 
and other cash distributions of surplus, increase in non-cash 
working capital and any other cash outflows other than cash 
expenditures related to the operations of the Borrower;
(ii)
the term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed or capital assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to the operations of the Borrower;
(iii)
"gross revenue" means the revenue earned and received for the 
services provided by the Borrower;
(iv)
"expenses" means the sum of all operating expenses, taxes on 
income and profits, depreciation and interest charged on all 
debentures, bonds and loans;
(v)
"operating expenses" means the cost of operation and maintenance, 
service management and administrative expenses, and all taxes 
accruing during the financial year, other than taxes on income and 
profits of the Borrower;
(vi)
"taxes on income and profits" consists of income taxes and other 
levies accrued by the Borrower according to the provisions of any 
legislation or regulation applicable in this respect;
(vii)
"depreciation" means the applicable provision derived pursuant to 
the requirements stipulated in the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, 
as amended from time to time; and
(viii)"interest charged on all debentures, bonds and loans" means all 
interest, excluding interest during construction, accrued by the 
Borrower during the fiscal year and all other charges on debt.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 4 to 1.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the 
extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding pursuant to 
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date of the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the 
guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, which:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and
(ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(ii)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: (a) carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental 
and utilities practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and utility 
practices; and
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers or make other provisions 
satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall 
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Borrower shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the financial condition or operation of the Borrower or its ability to 
perform any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
(b)
Any Security Document shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived without the prior approval of the Bank, or the Borrower shall have 
failed to enforce or implement any provision of any such Security Document.
(c)
The Agreement referred to in Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval 
of the Bank, or the Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to enforce or 
implement any provision of such Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, any event specified in paragraphs 
(a), (b) or (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Security Documents shall have been executed and any necessary 
registrations and filings thereof shall have been made in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank and without any cost to it; and
(b)
that the Borrower shall have entered into a guarantee fee agreement with 
the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, for: (i) indemnifying the Guarantor in the 
event that it is called upon to pay the principal of, and interest and other charges 
on the Loan or any portion thereof pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantee 
Agreement; and (ii) paying to the Guarantor on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time a guarantee fee satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Security Documents have been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower 
and are legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms and are 
adequate for the purpose for which they have been executed.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Borrower or any other person designated by him 
in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Powergrid Corporation of India Limited
B-9, Qutab Institutional Area
Katwaria Saria, New Delhi  110016
Cable address:
Fax:
NATGRID
91-11-6560054
New Delhi
91-11-6560086
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director
India
POWERGRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
By /s/ R.P. Singh
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A:  General 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works,
   90,000,000
70%
installation and
erection
(2)
Goods
  355,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
    5,000,000
100%
services
TOTAL
450,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Guarantor is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $45,000,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statement of expenditures for contracts not exceeding the equivalent of: (i) 
$3,500,000 for goods and works; (ii) $100,000 for the services of consulting firms; 
and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual consultants, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Part B:  Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India or in any commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.06 of this Agreement accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.06 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditures.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $20,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 (a) of this Annex A, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$50,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each applications for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(a)
the amount so requested; and 
(b)
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management 
Report accompanying said applications, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $40,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist India in restructuring the 
power transmission sub-sector, improve coordination in power system operations, and 
promote power trading through regulatory, tariff and institutional reforms; (b) to 
support the Borrower’s institutional development and promote satisfactory financial 
and commercial performance and the implementation of the Borrower’s investment and 
commercial policy; (c) to assist the Borrower in the development of modern system 
coordination and control facilities and reinforcement of its transmission system 
towards a national grid; and (d) to support the Borrower in the facilitation of 
private investment in the power sector and in its possible diversification into 
telecommunications.
The Project, which supports the implementation of the FY 1998-2003 time-slice of 
the Borrower’s Investment Program, consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Power System Coordination and Control
Improving the efficiency of power system operations in the Eastern Region and 
the Western Region within the Project Area through the design and implementation of 
regional power system coordination and control facilities.
Part B:
Transmission System Development
1.
The construction and operation of inter-regional transmission links for building 
a functional national grid consisting of:
(a)
a 500 MW HVDC interconnector from the Eastern Region to the Northern 
Region within the Project Area with back-to-back terminal and related transmission 
lines (the East-North Interconnector I);
(b)
a 2,000 MW HVDC interconnector from the Eastern Region to the Southern 
Region and related system improvements in the Southern Region, all within the Project 
Area (the East-South Interconnector II);
(c)
a 3,000 MW HVDC interconnector from the Eastern Region to the Northern 
Region and related system reinforcements in the Northern Region, all within the 
Project Area (the East-North Interconnector II); and a 1,500 MW AC interconnector from 
the Eastern Region to the Western Region and related system reinforcements in the 
Western Region, all within the Project Area (the East-West Interconnector I).
2.
Construction and operation of transmission systems within the Project Area: (a) 
to connect new power projects to the national grid; and (b) to reinforce regional 
grids.
3.
Construction and operation of transmission systems within the Project Area to 
facilitate international trading in electricity.
Part C:
Institutional Development and Diversification into Telecommunication
1.
Strengthening the Borrower’s institutional development, including promoting 
private sector participation in the power sector through the provision of technical 
assistance.
2.
Improving the skills of the Borrower’s staff through training in the areas 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Part, and in the operation and maintenance of 
transmission system coordination and control facilities.
3.
Carrying out a review and assessment of the Borrower’s proposed diversification 
into the telecommunications sector.
4.
Based on the review referred to in paragraph 3 of this Part, preparation of 
business plan and Investment Projects within the Project Area on telecommunication 
services for inclusion in the Investment Program.
5.
Implementing an Investment Project on telecommunication services.
Part D:
Ongoing Activities
The completion of regional power system coordination and control facilities, 
transmission lines and sub-stations and, institutional development activities financed 
by the Bank under Loan 3237-IN for the Northern Region Transmission Project and Loan 
3577-IN for the Powergrid System Development Project.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
December 15, 2006
 9,195,000
June 15, 2007
 9,485,000
December 15, 2007
 9,785,000
June 15, 2008
10,095,000
December 15, 2008
10,420,000
June 15, 2009
10,750,000
December 15, 2009
11,090,000
June 15, 2010
11,440,000
December 15, 2010
11,805,000
June 15, 2011
12,180,000
December 15, 2011
12,565,000
June 15, 2012
12,965,000
December 15, 2012
13,380,000
June 15, 2013
13,800,000
December 15, 2013
14,240,000
June 15, 2014
14,695,000
December 15, 2014
15,160,000
June 15, 2015
15,640,000
December 15, 2015
16,135,000
June 15, 2016
16,650,000
December 15, 2016
17,180,000
June 15, 2017
17,725,000
December 15, 2017
18,285,000
June 15, 2018
18,865,000
December 15, 2018
19,465,000
June 15, 2019
20,085,000
December 15, 2019
20,720,000
June 15, 2020
21,380,000
December 15, 2020
22,060,000
June 15, 2021
22,760,000
__________
TOTAL
     450,000,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the 
Bank in January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(b)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $25,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,500,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"; published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part C of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
With respect to each Investment Project, the Borrower shall, in accordance with 
procedures and methodology satisfactory to the Bank, prepare a detailed Project 
Implementation Plan covering matters including project design, land requirements, 
detailed engineering, technology used, cost estimates, construction arrangements and 
the eligibility criteria set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
2.
When presenting an Investment Project to the Bank for approval, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the Project Implementation Plan of the Investment Project 
prepared in accordance with paragraph (1) of this Schedule including a description of 
the financing arrangements for the Investment Project and the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, evidence that the Investment Project 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the proposed 
contractual and other arrangements for implementing the Investment Project, and such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
3.
No expenditures for works, goods or services required for an Investment Project 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Investment 
Project shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than twelve months prior to the date on which the Bank shall have 
received the information required under paragraph 2 of this Schedule in respect of 
such Investment Project.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the Investment Projects approved for financing 
pursuant to the provision of paragraph (2) of this Schedule in accordance with:
(i)
technical specifications and standards satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)
the objectives, policies, principles and time schedule of the 
environmental mitigation plan, the resettlement and rehabilitation 
plan, and other development plan for adversely affected people 
formulated pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of Part I of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(iii)
the Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures.
5.
The Borrower shall carry out the completion of the remaining activities approved 
for financing under the Loans referred to in Part D of the Project in accordance with 
technical specifications and standards satisfactory to the Bank, and such other 
procedures and arrangements as the Bank shall specify, including carrying out 
environmental mitigation measures and resettlement and rehabilitation of affected 
people in accordance with the Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures.
6.
The Borrower shall complete Investment Projects approved for financing by the 
Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and 
for such purpose shall provide or procure all financing required to cover any changes 
in the financing plan for such Investment Project.
7.
The Borrower:
(a)
shall maintain an adequate organizational structure with functions, 
powers, staff and resources, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing the 
Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures for the Project; and
(b)
unless the Bank otherwise agrees, shall not waive, amend, modify, 
abrogate or repeal the Environmental and Social Policy Procedures or any provision 
thereof.
8.
The Borrower shall carry on its functions as a grid operator, provider of 
transmission service, and facilitator of private power generation, and, except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, shall not engage in power trading on its own account.
9.
The Borrower shall provide to the Bank:
(a)
monthly reports on collection and billing within 15 days of the end of 
each month beginning with the month following the month in which the Effective Date 
falls; and
(b)
quarterly reports setting out the progress of the Project to the end of 
the quarter covered by the report, such report to be furnished within 30 days of the 
end of each quarter beginning with the quarter following the quarter in which the 
Effective Date falls.
10.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by April 15, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
11.
The Borrower shall implement, finance, operate and maintain the Investment 
Project under Part C.5 of the Project either by itself or through a separate entity 
(the Entity) in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Bank including: (a) 
transferring to the Entity the contracts relating to the implementation of such 
Investment Project and the assets financed thereunder, as the case may be, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) treating such transfer of the assets financed or to be 
financed under such contracts as a long term lease and/or a part of the Borrower’s 
equity contribution to the Entity; and (c) requiring the Entity to implement, finance, 
operate and maintain, as the case may be, the Investment Project in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Eligibility Criteria
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that an 
Investment Project in respect of which the Bank approval is sought pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement meets the eligibility 
criteria set out in the following Parts:
Part I:
General Criteria - Investment Projects Under Parts A, B and C (5) of the 
Project Set Out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
1.
The Investment Project is technically and operationally justified and has been 
formulated after taking into account other alternative investments.
2.
The Investment Project is economically and financially justified in the context 
of the Borrower’s overall least cost Investment Program and is included in such 
Program.
3.
The appropriate governmental authorities of the Guarantor have provided all 
required clearances/approvals including environmental and forest clearances, as 
applicable, for implementing the Investment Project and this is documented in the 
Project Implementation Plan for such Investment Project referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Investment Project has adequate financing and procurement plans.
5.
The Investment Project complies with the Environmental and Social Policy and 
Procedures and  towards that end, the Borrower has carried out an environmental impact 
assessment for that Investment Project and prepared an environmental mitigation plan, 
and where applicable, a resettlement and rehabilitation plan or other development plan 
for adversely affected people, satisfactory to the Bank.
Part II:
Additional Criteria - Investment Project Under Part B.1 (b) of the 
Project Set Out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
The proposed Talcher power project from which power would be evacuated through 
the proposed East-South Interconnector II under Part B.1 (b) of the Project:
(a)
has been prepared in accordance with environmental and, resettlement and 
rehabilitation standards satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
if the power project is developed by the private sector, such power 
project has reached financial closure.
Part III:
Additional Criteria - Investment Project Under Part B.1 (c) of the 
Project Set Out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
The proposed Hirma power project from which power would be evacuated through the 
proposed East-North Interconnector II and the East-West Interconnector I under Part 
B.1 (c) of the Project:
(a)
has been prepared in accordance with environmental and, resettlement and 
rehabilitation standards satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
if the power project is developed by the private sector, such power 
project has reached financial closure.
Part IV:
Additional Criteria - Investment Projects Under Parts B.2 (a) and B.3 of 
the  Project Set Out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
Each proposed power project having a capacity of 500 MW or more from which power 
would be evacuated through the proposed transmission systems under Part B.2 (a) or B.3 
of the Project:
(a)
is technically and economically justified in the context of the 
Guarantor’s overall least-cost generation expansion plan;
(b)
has been prepared in accordance with environmental and, resettlement and 
rehabilitation standards satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
if the power project is developed by the private sector, such power 
project has reached financial closure.
Part V:
Additional Criteria - Investment Projects Under Parts B.3 and C.5 of the 
Project Set Out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
1.
Such additional criteria as may be specified by the Bank for each such 
Investment Project.
2.
In respect of any Investment Project under Part B.3 of the Project relating to 
international electricity trading, such Investment Project and the associated trading 
arrangements have been approved by the Guarantor.
