CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4604 - BR
Loan Agreement
(Fiscal and Financial Management 
Technical Assistance Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 20, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4604 - BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 2001, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, consultants’ 
services and training activities referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"Fiscal Responsibility Law" means the Borrower’s Complementary Law (Lei 
Complementar) No. 101, dated May 4, 2000, which establishes public finance norms 
regarding fiscal management responsibility at the federal, state and municipal levels;
(d)
"MF" means Ministério da Fazenda, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(e)
"MF-MP Arrangement" means the arrangement referred to in Section 5.01 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(f)
"MP" means Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management;
(g)
"PCUs" means the units referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(h)
"PPA" means Plano Plurianual, the Borrower's multi-annual expenditure 
plan approved by law for a four-year period, which includes, inter alia, measurable 
physical targets, and actions to achieve such targets, in respect of the several 
programs under such plan; 
(i)
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(k)
"STN" means Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional, the Borrower's Treasury 
Secretariat in MF.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eight 
million eight hundred eighty thousand Dollars ($8,880,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, consultants' services and training activities required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency 
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower  notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. For purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s Secretary of the National Treasury, and any person he 
or she may designate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower 
with respect to any such action under Parts B and E of the Project; and (b) the 
Borrower’s Minister of Planning, Budget and Management, and any person he or she may 
designate, are designated as representatives of the Borrower with respect to any such 
action under Parts A, C and E of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project, through MP, 
Parts B and D of the Project, through MF, and Part E of the Project, through MP and MF 
jointly, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, fiscal management and financial practices and the provisions of the 
MF-MP Arrangement, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower, through MP and MF, shall establish and maintain, 
during Project implementation, one unit for each of said ministries (the PCUs); each 
headed by a Project coordinator and with the necessary staffing and assistance 
required for: (i) managing and coordinating the carrying out of their respective 
Project activities; (ii) serving as liaison between such ministries, the Bank and any 
other entity involved in Project implementation; and (iii) consolidating reports and 
information on their respective components of the Project, including Project financial 
management, procurement and disbursement activities.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank reports by an independent 
information technology expert or firm on the carrying out of Part D of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of each such report, as follows:
(a) a first report, not later than three months after the completion of such 
report or twelve months after the date of this Agreement;
(b) a second report, not later than 12 months after the date of delivery of the 
first such report to the Bank; and
(c) a third report, not later than 12 months after the date of delivery of the 
second such report to the Bank.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(b)
review with the Bank, on the 24th month after the Effective Date, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of such review, based on the monitoring 
and evaluation activities referred to in paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said review.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall, through MF and MP, establish and maintain 
a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures of the Borrower related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts (including 
procurement-related records) and the report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower, through MF and MP, shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than one year after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each 
of which to:
(i) 
(A) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) show separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explain variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)  the PCUs have been established as provided in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement, and the Bank has been furnished with evidence that the PCUs have 
assistance, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out the procurement activities under 
their respective Project components; and
(b)  an administrative arrangement (convênio), satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been entered into between MF and MP for purposes of defining the respective roles of 
MF and MP, and the procedures for cooperation between them, in the carrying out of the 
Project.
Section 5.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank of Brazil.
Section 5.03.  The date March 22, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "P" - 8° andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: 
(011-55-61) 412-1740
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: 
(011-55-61) 225-4022
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Suely Dib Sousa e Silva
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Antonio Rocha Magalhães
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a) under Parts 
100% of local
A and C of the Project
    588,200
expenditures (ex-
factory-cost) and
(b) under Part B
80% of local
of the Project
  2,141,800
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’ services
100%
and training:
(a) under Parts
A and C of the Project
  3,035,000
(b) under Part B
of the Project
  2,744,000
(c) under Part E 
of the Project
    282,200
(3)
Front-end fee
     88,800
Amount due
pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
TOTAL               8,880,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a)
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"training" includes travel costs and per diems of trainees, and costs of 
course materials.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months after the date 
of this Agreement but not earlier than February 1, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for training, and for expenditures under contracts for 
the purchase of goods and consultants' services that are not subject to prior review 
by the Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.2, and Section II, Part D.2, of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to 
this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of:  (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, as the 
case may be.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the 
amount of $880,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed $1,960,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in establishing and 
modernizing fiscal and financial management tools to implement the Borrower’s fiscal 
reform program described in the letter sent by the Borrower to the Bank on December 
20, 2000, which aims to improve: (a) aggregate fiscal performance through improved 
public debt management, incentives, and implementation of laws and regulations 
concerning fiscal responsibilities at the federal, state and municipal levels; (b) the 
use of public resources through better allocation and technical efficiency of 
expenditures; and (c) the core financial systems that underpin (a) and (b) above, in 
order to strengthen the foundations for improved growth, poverty reduction and public 
service delivery.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
PPA
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the PPA processes, allocative 
efficiency and budget integration through: (a) strengthening of the link between 
planning and budgeting functions, and studies to improve existing applicable 
legislation; (b) improvement of PPA’s program evaluation methodologies, including 
feedback mechanisms for policy and program formulation and budget resource allocation; 
(c) identification of information needs, elaboration of action plans and systems 
development for selected ministries of the Borrower and executors of actions under PPA 
programs to improve management of PPA programs and availability of PPA information; 
and (d) strengthening of the capability and commitment of PPA program managers and key 
government officers involved in PPA program implementation through training and 
dissemination of PPA best practices.
Part B:
Debt Management
Provision of technical assistance to raise STN's public debt management 
procedures to world's best practices through:
(a)
development of a debt management institutional and analytical framework 
consisting of: (i) development of analytical debt management framework and unified 
unit procedures (ii) development of debt management objectives and guidelines; (iii) 
development of an analytical framework for strategic debt and risk management; (iv) 
development of debt funding strategies; and (v) implementation of appropriate 
security, control and internal audit systems and procedures; and
(b)
upgrading of information technological systems and analytical tools 
through: (i) identification and development of new systems; (ii) establishment of a 
unified information system; (iii) equipping of STN's office for strategic debt 
analysis with requisite analytical software and hardware; (iv) identification and 
integration of required information available in other systems; and (v) provision of 
training for STN's debt management staff.
Part C:
Fiscal Responsibility Law
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the Borrower’s public sector 
capability to comply with the Fiscal Responsibility Law and related regulations, 
including: (a) design and carrying out of a training program for, and dissemination of 
information to, federal, state and municipal officials responsible for providing 
reports required by such Law; (b) strengthening of the capacity of the federal, state 
and municipal entities responsible for consolidating and evaluating reports submitted 
pursuant to such Law, including provision of equipment, development and implementation 
of required software, and provision of training; and (c) development and 
implementation of a civil society outreach program to build support for such Law, and 
assure transparency of procedures.
Part D:
SIAFI 21
Development of a system to upgrade and modernize the Borrower's existing 
integrated core financial management system (known as SIAFI), for purposes of 
improving budget and cash management and accounting capabilities of the Borrower's 
budget spending units, and incorporating the new fiscal management framework 
introduced by the PPA, the Fiscal Responsibility Law and the Borrower's new public 
debt management practices.
Part E:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance for Project management and coordination 
activities, including monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of financial, procurement, 
and disbursement activities.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
    (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 2007 
through February 15, 2016
  445,000
on August 15, 2016
        425,000
____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
In the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part B, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, 
regarding preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. For purposes of the Guidelines, the 
term "duties and other related import taxes" includes the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge 
for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha 
Mercante), established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Part C:
Shopping or Pregão
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of: (a) either national or international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, and a standard 
request for quotations acceptable to the Bank; or (b) the procedures known as 
"pregão," set forth in the Borrower’s Decreto No. 3555, of August 8, 2000, as amended 
by Decreto No. 3693, of December 20, 2000.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated every six months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to the contracts for goods to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B above.
(b)
The following procedures shall apply to the first two contracts to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C above:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to the review by the Bank of any contract not governed by the provisions of 
paragraph 2 above.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
The services of a consulting firm to carry out a study on development of a debt 
management institutional and analytical framework in STN shall be procured under a 
contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Consulting firms’ services in connection with the management information systems 
under the PPA may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
The services of a logistics consulting firm to organize seminars under Part A of 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereof.
4.
Single Source Selection
Consulting firms’ services under Parts C (a) and B (b) (v) of the Project may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, costing in the aggregate not more than 
$2,500,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereof.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Such plan shall be updated every six months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that with respect to the employment of individual 
consultants for the PCU, costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, the terms 
of reference for their respective assignments shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.
