CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7048-AL
Loan Agreement
(Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 3, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7048-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 2001, between PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated August 7, 2000 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the 
energy and mining sectors (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ASMIDAL" means Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits 
Phytosanitaires;
(b)
"BAD" means the Borrower’s Algerian Development Bank (Banque Algérienne 
de Développement), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Ordinance No. 
71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"Banque d'Algérie" means the Borrower's central bank, operating pursuant 
to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(d)
"Competent Authorities" means collectively, the Council of Government 
(Conseil du Gouvernement), the Council of Ministers (Conseil des Ministres) and the 
National Popular Assembly (Assemblée Nationale Populaire) of the Borrower;
(e)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period;
(f)
"Draft Law on Electricity and Natural Gas Distribution by Pipelines" 
means the Borrower’s draft law governing the electricity sector and natural gas 
distribution by pipelines, to be submitted to the Competent Authorities in accordance 
with Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Draft Hydrocarbon Law" means the Borrower’s draft law governing the 
hydrocarbon sector, to be submitted to the Competent Authorities in accordance with 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Draft Mining Law" means the Borrower’s draft law submitted to the 
National Popular Assembly, governing the mining sector;
(i)
"ENAMARBRE" means Entreprise Nationale du Marbre;
(j)
"ENOR" means Entreprise Nationale de l'Or;
(k)
"FERPHOS" means Entreprise Nationale du Fer et des Phosphates;
(l)
"Maturity Fixing Date" means for each Disbursed Amount, the date on which 
the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date being 
the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn;
(m)
"MEM" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy and Mining;
(n)
"ORGM" means Office de la Recherche Géologique et Minière;
(o)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit within MEM;
(p)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Borrower’s plan dated December 1, 
2000, referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank, for the implementation of the Project which, inter alia: (i) defines the 
roles and responsibilities of the personnel of PMU, (ii) sets forth the timetable of 
actions required under the Project, (iii) identifies the targets and performance 
indicators to be used in evaluating progress toward the achievement of the objectives 
of the Project, and (iv) includes the procedure manual prepared by the Borrower which 
shall include, inter alia, the auditing, accounting and financial reporting 
arrangements for the Project;
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on June 26, 2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on July 26, 2000;
(s)
"Sector Environmental Assessments" means the measures to be carried out 
by the Borrower, under terms and conditions agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, 
in connection with, respectively, the mining, electricity and hydrocarbon sectors in 
order to, inter alia: (i) assess the existing environmental regulation of the 
Borrower; (ii) conduct a comparative study of the relevant laws and regulations in 
force in other countries; (iii) propose appropriate corrective actions; and (iv) 
evaluate the institutional aspects in connection with said sectors with a view to 
improve the environmental management of said sectors;
(t)
"SONELGAZ" means Société Nationale de l'Electricité et du Gaz; and
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eighteen 
million Dollars ($18,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Banque d’Algérie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one hundred eighty thousand Dollars ($180,000).  The Borrower agrees that on 
or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on 
the tenth (10th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty sixth 
(26th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-seventeenth 
(1/17th) of said Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the 
remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed Amount.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after October 15, 2017, the Borrower 
shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; and
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, environmental, financial, 
technical, administrative, energy and mining practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall have completed, not later than June 30, 2001, 
the process of submission of the Draft Law on Electricity and Natural Gas Distribution 
by Pipelines, satisfactory to the Bank, to the Competent Authorities.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall have completed, not later than December 31, 
2001, the process of submission of the Draft Hydrocarbon Law, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to the Competent Authorities.
Section 3.06. In order to achieve the objectives of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, the Borrower shall take all actions necessary on its part, not later than 
December 31, 2002, to issue and promulgate the decrees and regulations, satisfactory 
to the Bank and the Borrower, required for, respectively, the hydrocarbon, electricity 
and mining sectors.
Section 3.07. In order to achieve the objectives of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, the Borrower shall take all action necessary, not later than one year 
following the enactment of, respectively, the hydrocarbon law, the law on electricity 
and natural gas distribution by pipelines and the mining law: (a) to establish the 
relevant regulatory agencies for the hydrocarbon, electricity and mining sectors, 
respectively, in accordance with an institutional framework acceptable to the Bank, 
and (b) to appoint the necessary staff to enable the suitable functioning and 
operation of the agencies referred to in (a).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 
2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has established the financial management 
system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of the Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Immeuble Maurétania
Place de Pérou
Algiers 16000
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINPLAN
67073
(213) 2-736440
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Chakib Khelil
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Categories
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
3,250,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100 % of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants'
12,220,000
100%
services
(3)
Training
700,000
100%
(4)
Fee
180,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Refunding of Project 
650,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
1,000,000
TOTAL
18,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of three 
hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($350,000), may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures incurred within two (2) months prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; (ii) services under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (iii) 
contracts for goods costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (iv) 
training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its 
energy and mining reform Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Hydrocarbon Sector
1.
Review, design and implement the legal, regulatory and institutional framework, 
including the development of suitable environmental policies and regulations for the 
hydrocarbon sector on the basis of Sector Environmental Assessments for said sector, 
consistent with the sector reform strategy set out in the Program, through the 
provision of consultant services.
2.
Establish and operate a contract management and promotion agency, including a 
state of the art data center, through the provision of consultant services.
3.
Establish and operate an autonomous regulatory entity, through the provision of 
consultant services.
4.
Carry out of a training program for the relevant staff, through the provision of 
consultant services.
Part B:
Electricity Sector
1.
Review, design and implement the legal, regulatory and institutional framework 
for electricity and natural gas distribution by pipelines, including the development 
of suitable environmental policies and regulations for the electricity sector on the 
basis of Sector Environmental Assessments for said sector, consistent with the sector 
reform strategy set out in the Program, through the provision of consultant services.
2.
Establish and operate an autonomous regulatory entity, a system operator and a 
market operator, through the provision of consultant services.
3.
Implement the restructuring and reform program of the electricity sector and the 
restructuring of SONELGAZ, through the provision of consultant services.
4.
Launch an innovative first power generation program with the participation of 
the private sector, through the provision of consultant services.
5.
Carrying out a training program for the relevant staff, through the provision of 
consultant services.
Part C:
Mining Sector
1.
Review, design and implement the legal, regulatory and institutional framework, 
including the development of suitable environmental policies and regulations for the 
mining sector on the basis of Sector Environmental Assessments for said sector,  
consistent with the sector reform strategy set out in the Program, through the 
provision of consultant services.
2.
Establish and operate a national agency for geological survey and mining control 
and a national cadastrial agency, through the provision of consultant services.
3.
Implement a program aiming at promoting the mining sector; through the provision 
of consultant services.
4.
Provide assistance to five state-owned enterprises, namely ORGM, ENOR, FERPHOS, 
ASMIDAL and ENAMARBRE, in their efforts to adjust to the mining sector reform, through 
the provision of consultant services.
5.
Carry out of a training program for the relevant staff, through the provision of 
consultant services.
Part D:
Capacity Building
Strengthen the institutional capacity of MEM and establish the PMU, through the 
provision of goods, consultants’ services, training and equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Limited International Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, which the Bank 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International/National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or less, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Contracts for services awarded to individual consultants shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation, Management and Coordination
The MEM shall have overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project.  
In order to ensure proper management and coordination of the Project, MEM shall, not 
later than one year after effectiveness of this Agreement, staff the PMU with 
professional personnel in adequate number, whose experience and terms of reference 
shall be acceptable to the Bank. The PMU shall be headed by a Project Manager. The PMU 
shall be responsible for, inter alia, the procurement and disbursement processes under 
the Project and the supervision of its execution. To this end, the Project Manager 
shall be assisted by a procurement specialist, an accountant and experts of, 
respectively, the mining, hydrocarbon and electricity sectors, on the basis of 
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall 
ensure that a financial management specialist in charge of payments for contracts 
financed under the Project be appointed within BAD.
B.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2002 a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by February 28, 2003 or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the eligible Categories, and in the 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
