CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4598-UR
Loan Agreement
(Public Services Modernization Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 22, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4598-UR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 22, 2001, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has furnished the Bank with a policy letter dated March 9, 
2001, in which letter the Borrower has laid out its objectives with respect to the 
Project (as defined below);
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist it in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter dated March 9, 2001, from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring and evaluation indicators;
(d)
"OPP" means Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto, the Borrower’s Office 
of Planning and Budgeting, as established by Section 230 of the Borrower’s 
constitution;
(e)
"PMU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(g)
"PS" or "Public Services" means all of the following public sector 
services rendered in Uruguay, water and sanitation, electric power, natural gas, 
petroleum, railways, ports, telecommunications and postal;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B to Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(i)
"UNDP" means United Nations Development Programme; and
(j)
"UNDP Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between UNDP and 
the Borrower for assistance in the execution of the Project, referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to six 
million Dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06. the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Unless otherwise instructed in writing by the Minister of Economy 
and Finance of the Borrower, the Director of OPP and any person or persons whom such 
Director shall designate in writing are designated as representatives of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through OPP with the assistance 
of UNDP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative, technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and  services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into an agreement  with UNDP under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, whereby: (i) the Borrower will authorize UNDP to undertake, on behalf of the 
Borrower, the procurement of goods and services under the Project in accordance with 
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Loan Agreement, and the issuance of 
bidding documents and requests for proposals prepared by the Borrower; (ii) UNDP will 
undertake to keep separate records and accounts in respect of such goods and services, 
and to assist the Borrower in all other aspects of the carrying out of the Project and 
in complying with the Borrower’s obligations under this Loan Agreement; and (iii) the 
Borrower will undertake to transfer to UNDP the proceeds of the Loan and the 
counterpart funds as required to effect the payments for goods and services under the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the UNDP Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate or waive the UNDP Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish, operate and maintain within OPP, 
during the implementation of the Project, a Project management unit (the PMU) with 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU is at all times headed by a 
Project coordinator and assisted by staff and consultants in adequate numbers, all 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. Staff of the PMU shall 
include representatives of regulatory agencies and ministries of the Executive Branch 
of the Borrower related to the Project.  Consultants shall include at least an 
international consultant specialized in the regulation of public services and the 
reform of public utilities).
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 during 
Project implementation, starting on January 31, 2002, a progress report of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request which, inter alia, integrates 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, with regard to the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the calendar quarter preceding the date of said report and 
sets out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
Section 3.07. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 above, and in the 
event of granting concessions for the provision of public services supported by this 
Project, the Borrower shall carry out environmental audits, acceptable to the Bank, of 
the facilities to be granted in concession, include in the relevant bidding documents 
the results of said audits, and require concessionaires to mitigate the undesirable 
environmental impacts identified in the audits in accordance with an environmental 
mitigation plan satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including as part of the 
information to be provided in each such report, a management 
letter concerning the Borrower’s internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than January 31, 
2002 or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and 
October 31 during Project implementation a Project Management Report for each calendar 
quarter ending on December 31, March 31, June 30 and September 30.
Section 4.03. The Borrower, through OPP, shall not later than six months after 
the Effective Date furnish to the Bank a management letter, acceptable to the Bank, 
reflecting the results of an examination carried out by independent auditors, 
acceptable to the Bank, concerning the OPP’s internal controls.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that UNDP shall have failed to comply 
with any of its obligations under the UNDP Agreement, provided however, that the 
provisions of this Section shall not apply if upon the occurrence of the event 
mentioned herein the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (a) 
such event will not materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project by 
the Borrower; or (b) adequate arrangements have been made to enable the Borrower to 
continue the carrying out of the Project by the Borrower without the assistance of 
UNDP.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, provided however, that the provisions of this 
Section shall not apply if upon the occurrence of the event mentioned herein the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (a) such event will not 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project by the Borrower; or 
(b) adequate arrangements have been made to enable the Borrower to continue the 
carrying out of the Project by the Borrower without the assistance of UNDP.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
established as provided in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement;  
(b)
the UNDP Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto; and
(c)
the auditors mentioned in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have been 
appointed.
Section  6.02. The date November 22, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
Colonia 1089, piso 3
CP 11100
Montevideo, Uruguay
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
MINECON
9000186
Montevideo, Uruguay
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By /s/ Ariel Davrieux
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of 
the Loan Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
and 82% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’     5,640,000
100% of foreign 
services and
expenditures and 82%
Training
of local expenditures
(3)
Travel 
100,000
100%
Costs 
(4)
Front-end Fee
 60,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
    6,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower to 
finance the transportation costs, rental facilities, lodging, per-diem of trainees, 
study tours and other training-related expenditures under the Project, as approved by 
the Bank; and 
(d)
the term "Travel Costs" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower to 
finance the travel costs and per-diem of its personnel, other than under training, in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project, as approved by the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
February 22, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (b) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (c) contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (d) expenditures for Training and Travel Costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Central Bank of the Borrower on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the three-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equal to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal 
to $150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed an amount equal to 
$450,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of  the Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed an amount equal to $700,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency and sustainability 
of, and the access to, public services in Uruguay by developing sector policies, 
strengthening legal and regulatory frameworks, and designing appropriate regulatory 
instruments; increasing competition among service providers; expanding and deepening 
private sector participation in the provision of public services; promoting stronger 
commercial orientation of public utilities; and ensuring the efficient delivery of 
services to the poor.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Policy Definition, Legal and Regulatory Frameworks for PS
1.
Development of regulation and control norms for the provision of PS by private 
and public operators through, inter alia: (a) the development of costs and financial 
models, regulatory accounting  and audited information systems; (b) analyses of the 
economic and environmental aspects of such regulation; (c) the establishment and 
strengthening of independent agencies to regulate the provision of PS; (d) the review 
of the institutional structure of the Borrower’s regulatory agencies and their 
relationships; (e) the assessment of the impact of PS reform on the Borrower’s fiscal 
accounts; (f) the design and implementation of a public information campaign on said 
PS reform; (g) the carrying out of training programs, study tours, seminars and 
workshops for Borrower officials to get acquainted with said PS reform; (h) the 
development of concession frameworks for the provision of PS by private operators 
(including, the design of standard public bidding documents, the carrying out of 
environmental audits of existing facilities prior to their concession to private 
operators, and the establishment of risk allocation parameters related to the 
provision of PS); (i) the support of a competitive environment in the provision of PS 
through the establishment of a performance benchmarking system; (j) the design of 
strategies to increase access and affordability of services to the poor; (k) the 
development of conflict resolution mechanisms and appropriate sanctions for 
non-compliance of providers of PS; (l) the evaluation and revision of tariff 
structures and rate levels; and (m) the preparation of a customer service and quality 
standards strategy for the provision of PS.
2.
 Development of institutional capacity within OPP and the relevant ministries of 
the Borrower to structure private sector participation in the provision of PS.
Part B:
Water and Sanitation Sector
Without limitation to the activities listed under Part A above:
1.
Development for the water and sanitation sector of: (a) policies to provide 
incentives for coverage expansion (in particular of sewage collection and treatment), 
rural services and service quality improvements; and (b) regulations for granting 
licenses to private operators.
2.
Revision of existing tariffs and subsidies in the water and sanitation sector.
3.
Identification and development of projects for potential private sector 
participation in the provision of water and sanitation services, including: (a) the 
preparation of medium sized concessions; (b) the supervision of the concessionaire 
providing water and sanitation services in the Borrower’s department of Maldonado; and 
(c) training of Borrower officials in concession management.
Part C:
Electric Power Sector
Without limitation to the activities listed under Part A above:
1.
Development and implementation of operational norms, regulations, structure and 
quality standards for the wholesale market of electricity generation, transmission 
-including access and tolls - and distribution.
2.
Design of a system of controls for service providers in the electricity sector, 
and a control center for the dispatch of electrical energy.
3.
Carrying out of a study on the cost of rationing the supply of electricity. 
Part D:
Natural Gas Sector
Without limitation to the activities listed under Part A above:
Preparation of operational norms and regulations for technical and commercial 
coordination, access, use, transportation, distribution and expanded provision of 
natural gas services.
Part E:
Petroleum Sector
Without limitation to the activities listed under Part A above:
1.
Definition of the market structure for petroleum products.
2.
Design of regulatory practices that address conflict of interest issues in the 
marketing of petroleum products.
3.
Liberalization of the downstream market to increase competition.
Part F:
Telecommunications Sector 
Without limitation to the activities listed under Part A above:
1.
Preparation for the telecommunications sector of regulations on concessions and 
licenses, interconnection, tariffs and subsidies, fundamental technical planning, use 
of the electromagnetic spectrum and quality of service.
2.
Design of a system for monitoring the electromagnetic spectrum.
3.
Strengthening of the regulatory oversight of anti-competitive and market 
foreclosure practices.
Part G:
Postal Sector
Without limitation to the activities listed under Part A above:
1.
Revision of current tariffs and financial options for the universal provision of 
postal services in the area assigned to the relevant service provider.
2.
Preparation of rules and regulations for granting licenses to private postal 
service operators.
Part H:
Railways and Ports Sector
Without limitation to the activities listed under Part A above:
1.
Supporting the business-oriented reform of Administración de Ferrocarriles del 
Estado (AFE, as created by the Borrower’s Law No. 11.859 – as amended), separating, 
operational and infrastructure maintenance issues.
2.
Preparation of regulations for railways interconnection, access, service 
quality, price setting and customer service.
Part I:
Project Management
Strengthening the operational capacity of the PMU to manage, coordinate and 
audit the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 2006
through February 15, 2016
 300,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B: 
Shopping
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures, at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of requests for price quotations, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to all contracts.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines and paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount of $1,500,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines and paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto.
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for specialized activities under the Project, as approved 
by the Bank, which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000, the terms of reference and 
short list of the consulting firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants  estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the terms of 
reference and short list of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Part E:
Special Provision
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in Section 
II of this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rule of procurement 
shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section 
II of this Schedule: foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate 
(legalizar) their proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with 
Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure.
