CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4606 IN
Loan Agreement
(Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 26, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4606 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2001, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Karnataka (Karnataka) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) 
available to Karnataka, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Karnataka 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Advisory Committee" means the Advisory Committee established within 
Karnataka (as hereinafter defined) for the purposes of advising Karnataka on the 
implementation of the Institutional Development Action Plan (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan dated January 2001 and 
approved by the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the measures to mitigate adverse 
environmental impacts of road construction and improvement relating to the sections of 
state roads included in Parts A.1 and B of the Project for which engineering designs 
had been finalized and detailed environmental studies had been completed as of January 
2001;
(e)
"Environmental Management Plan Implementation Unit" means the 
Environmental Management Plan Implementation Unit established within PWD (as 
hereinafter defined) for the purposes of carrying out the environmental mitigation and 
related measures referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(f)
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s and Karnataka’s fiscal year, 
beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year;
(g)
"Grievance Redress Committee" means the Grievance Redress Committee 
established within each District of Karnataka in which the Project will be carried out 
for the purposes of implementing the RAP (as hereinafter defined) with the updates 
referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(h)
"Institutional Development Action Plan" means the Institutional 
Development Action Plan set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter 
defined) for improving the institutional capacity of PWD and other related road 
agencies;
(i)
"Karnataka" means the State of Karnataka, a State of India, and includes 
any successor thereto;
(j)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Karnataka of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(k)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Project Implementation Plan of 
Karnataka for the carrying out of the Project, dated May 2001 and approved by the 
Bank;
(l)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(m)
"Project Steering Committee" means the Project Steering Committee 
established within Karnataka for the purposes of, inter alia, making decisions for all 
tenders under the Project;
(n)
"PWD" means the Public Works Department of Karnataka;
(o)
"RAP" means the Resettlement Action Plan dated January 2001 and approved 
by the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the entitlement framework, institutional 
arrangements, implementation schedules, monitoring mechanisms and cost estimates for 
the resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the implementation of the 
Project;
(p)
"Social Development and Resettlement Cell" means the Social Development 
and Resettlement Cell established within PWD for the purposes of carrying out the RAP 
with the updates referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed to be a reference to Karnataka.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred sixty million dollars ($360,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Karnataka to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Karnataka therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Karnataka 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Karnataka 
in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance 
to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Karnataka pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Karnataka shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Karnataka will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Karnataka, 
and is legally binding upon Karnataka in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
all actions set forth in the action plan referred to in Section 3.02(a) 
of the Project Agreement for which the completion dates specified therein precede the 
Effectiveness Date have been completed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Karnataka, and is legally binding upon Karnataka in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECOFAIRS
953-31-66175 FINE IN
91-11-3013133 or
New Delhi
953-31-61430 FINE IN
91-11-3017511
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)      
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
(a)  for Parts A.1 and
 280,000,000
80%
B of the Project
(b)  for Part A.2 of
  11,000,000
80%
the Project
(2)
Goods
   6,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost); and 
80% of local expen-
ditures for other items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services,
  30,000,000
100%
training and studies
(4)
Fee
   3,600,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
  29,400,000
TOTAL
 360,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $8,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 18, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts for Part 
A.1 of the Project costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent each; (ii) works under 
contracts for Parts A.2 and B of the Project costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent 
each; (iii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (iv) 
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (v) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; and (vi) training and studies; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 of the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower or Karnataka shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement and 
Section 3.01(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Sections in respect of the audit of: (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records, accounts and 
financial statements reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $13,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Karnataka in improving its core road 
network by, inter alia: (i) enhancing the capacity and quality of the priority state 
highway network as well as reducing the backlog of deferred periodic maintenance on 
the core network; (ii) promoting safer transit on selected corridors through a pilot 
road safety program; (iii) improving the allocation of public funds for the road 
sector; and (iv) developing more efficient and effective network management and 
delivery of road infrastructure services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Road Upgrading and Widening
1.
Upgrading and widening about 1,000 km of priority state roads.
2.
Carrying out a program of resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by 
the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project and implementing measures to mitigate 
adverse environmental impacts of the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project.
Part B:
Road Rehabilitation
Implementing a program of rehabilitation of about 1,300 km of state roads and 
implementing measures to mitigate adverse environmental impacts of the carrying out of 
such program.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
Implementing the Institutional Development Action Plan for PWD and other related 
agencies, developing an effective road maintenance management system in PWD through 
the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment, and conducting 
pre-investment studies for the preparation of possible future projects.
Part D:
Pilot Road Safety Program
Implementing a pilot road safety program, which includes the implementation of 
engineering and traffic management measures to enhance road safety and mitigate 
traffic accidents at selected black spot locations along the Project corridors, the 
implementation of a safety audit, and the development of a safety management system.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*  
February 15, 2007
 7,355,000
August 15, 2007
 7,590,000
February 15, 2008
 7,830,000
August 15, 2008
 8,080,000
February 15, 2009
 8,335,000
August 15, 2009
 8,600,000
February 15, 2010
 8,870,000
August 15, 2010
 9,155,000
February 15, 2011
 9,445,000
August 15, 2011
 9,745,000
February 15, 2012
10,055,000
August 15, 2012
10,375,000
February 15, 2013
10,700,000
August 15, 2013
11,040,000
February 15, 2014
11,390,000
August 15, 2014
11,755,000
February 15, 2015
12,125,000
August 15, 2015
12,510,000
February 15, 2016
12,910,000
August 15, 2016
13,320,000
February 15, 2017
13,740,000
August 15, 2017
14,180,000
February 15, 2018
14,630,000
August 15, 2018
15,095,000
February 15, 2019
15,575,000
August 15, 2019
16,065,000
February 15, 2020
16,575,000
August 15, 2020
17,105,000
February 15, 2021
17,645,000
August 15, 2021
18,205,000
____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amounts in dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.
