CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7080 PH
Loan Agreement
(LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project - Phase II)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Dated November 19, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7080 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 19, 2001 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from Republic of the Philippines (the 
Guarantor) letters dated September 28, 1998, and August 15, 2001, describing a program 
designed to ensure access to sustainable water supply, sanitation and drainage 
services for the greater portion of the population in approximately two hundred fifty 
cities and municipalities outside Metro Manila in the Philippines (the Program, as 
hereinafter defined) and declaring the Guarantor’s commitment to the execution of said 
Program;
(B)
the Guarantor has requested that the Bank support the Guarantor’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately 
twelve years to be utilized in the implementation of the Program; 
(C)
the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
which Project forms the second phase of the Program, have requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project;
(D)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
(E)
the Borrower has obtained from the Nordic Development Fund a loan in 
amount equivalent to five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,000,000) (the NDF 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Loan), a portion  of which is to be used to assist in the financing of Parts A(2) and 
B(1) and B(3) of the Project, on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement dated 
December 28, 1998, (the NDF Loan Agreement) entered into between the Nordic 
Development Fund and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement: 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
"(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement:
(a)
"Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas" means the Central Bank of the Republic of 
the Philippines, and any successor thereto.
(b)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
"Charter" means the charter of the Borrower dated December 3, 1986, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(d)
"DILG" means the Guarantor’s Department of Interior and Local Government, 
an agency of the Guarantor, and any successor thereto.
(e)
"DOF" means the Guarantor’s Department of Finance, an agency of the 
Guarantor, and any successor thereto.
(f)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(g)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for services referred to 
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
(h)
"Financial Institution" means a financial institution, including a 
commercial bank, a rural bank, a thrift bank and credit cooperative; and "Financial 
Institutions" means, collectively, all such financial institutions. 
(i)
"LGU" means a Local Government Unit which is a political subdivision of 
the Guarantor at the provincial, city, municipal or barangay level; and "LGUs" means, 
collectively, all such Local Government Units.
(j)
"Memorandum of Agreement" and "MOA" mean the agreement dated October 16, 
1998, executed by the Borrower, DILG and DOF for the establishment of the Technical 
Working Committee and referred to in Section 2.03(d)(i) of the Guarantee Agreement and 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
(k)
"NEDA" means the Guarantor’s National Economic and Development Authority, 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Executive Order No. 230, dated July 22, 1987.
(l)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted 
by the Technical Working Committee on August 1, 2001, and referred to in Section 
2.03(d)(ii) of the Guarantee Agreement and in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.   The said Manual sets forth, inter alia, (i) procedures and standards for 
the selection of Participating Entities and for the preparation, appraisal and 
approval of Sub-projects; (ii) technical standards and design of Sub-projects; (iii) 
policies and procedures for environmental impact assessment, mitigation, management 
and monitoring and for involuntary resettlement and acquisition of land and other 
assets and compensation therefore; and (iv) guidelines regarding LGU, Private 
Operator, Financial Institution and community participation.
(m)
"Participating Entity" means a LGU, Private Operator or Financial 
Institution, selected in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual to receive financing out of the proceeds of the Loan to carry out 
its respective Sub-project under Part A of the Project; and "Participating Entities" 
means, collectively, all such LGUs, Private Operators and Financial Institutions.
(n)
"Peso" means the currency of the Guarantor.
(o)
"Project Management Office" and "PMO" mean the project management office 
established by the Borrower on January 29, 1999, and to be maintained pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(p)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be established by each 
Participating Entity in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2(h)(ii) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(q)
"Private Operator" means a private enterprise that proposes to build, 
lease and operate water supply systems owned by LGUs; and "Private Operators" means, 
collectively, all such private enterprises. 
(r)
"Program" means the Guarantor’s LGU Urban Water and Sanitation 
Development Program as set out in the letters from the Guarantor referred to in 
paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement.
(s)
"Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution 
of Part A of the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets adversely 
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected; and "Project Affected Person" means any of 
the Affected Persons. 
(t)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
(v)
"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a 
Participating Entity, under the provisions of a Subloan Agreement, for the carrying 
out of a Sub-project; and "Subloans" means, collectively, all such loans.
(w)
"Subloan Agreement" mean a agreement to be entered between the Borrower 
and a Participating Entity, pursuant to  Section 2(h) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
and "Subloan Agreements" means, collectively, all such agreements.
(x)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between 
a Participating Entity pursuant to the provisions in paragraph 6 of the Annex to 
Schedule 5 of this Agreement.
(y)
"Sub-projects" means, collectively, all Type A Sub-projects, Type B 
Sub-projects and Type C Sub-projects, and "Sub-project" means any such Type A 
Sub-project, Type B Sub-project or Type C Sub-project.
(z)
"Type A Sub-project" means a specific investment project which includes 
the construction, expansion or rehabilitation of water supply and drainage systems to 
be carried out by a LGU under Part A of the Project, utilizing the proceeds of its 
respective Subloan; and "Type A Sub-projects" means, collectively, all such investment 
projects.
(aa)
"Type B Sub-project" means a specific investment project which includes 
the construction, expansion or rehabilitation of a LGU-owned water supply system to be 
carried out by a Private Operator under Part A of the Project, utilizing the proceeds 
of its respective Subloan and, which water supply system shall be leased and operated 
by said Private Operator upon completion; and "Type B Sub-projects" means, 
collectively, all such investment projects. 
(bb)
"Type C Sub-project" means a specific investment project which includes 
the construction, expansion or rehabilitation of sanitation systems to be carried out 
by a household under Part A of the Project, utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan made 
by the Borrower to a LGU, Private Operator or Financial Institution for onlending to 
said household to carry out said sanitation system works; and "Type C Sub-projects" 
means, collectively, all such investment projects.
(cc)
"Type C Sub-project Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be 
made by a Participating Entity, using the proceeds of its Subloan, to a household 
under the provisions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement for said household to carry out a 
Type C Sub-project. 
(dd)
"Technical Working Committee" means the committee established on October 
16, 1998, and maintained pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.03(d)(i) of the Guarantee Agreement and Section 3.03(a) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
billion, seven hundred and seventeen million, nine hundred thousand Yen (JPY 
3,717,900,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
and in respect of interest on the Loan and the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b)
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest on 
the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up to the amount 
allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A, B(1) and B(2) and the relevant part of Part B(3)(a) of the Project in 
selected cities and municipalities with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative, banking, water supply, environmental and 
social standards and practices, and shall provide, cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts of 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A, B(1) and B(2) and the relevant part of Part B(3)(a) of the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of works 
required for Type A Sub-projects and Type C Sub-projects under Part A(1) of the 
Project and procurement of consultants’ services under Part B(2) of the Project, to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.   Procurement of works required for Type B Sub-projects 
under Part A(1) of the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower:
(a)
shall, jointly with  DILG and other relevant national agencies, maintain 
the Technical Working Committee, which was set up pursuant to the Memorandum of 
Agreement, to be responsible for overall coordination and supervision of all 
components of the Project; and
(b)
shall not amend, delete, suspend or waive the Operational Manual or any 
provision thereof without the prior consent of the Bank.
Section 3.04. By January 1, 2002, the Borrower shall commence implementation of 
the time-bound action plan, dated August 16, 2001, for the implementation of Part A 
(2) of the Project. 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish not later than December 31, 2001, 
and, thereafter, maintain at all times a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
six-month period a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as 
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in 
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) 
used in its operations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all actions within its powers to 
distribute annual dividends on its shares only after adequate provisions  have been 
made for, inter alia: (a) taxes; (b) loan loss provisions; and (c) adjustments to its 
equity caused by within-year inflation.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2001, take all steps necessary 
to reduce the percentage of the arrears in its retail loan portfolio to a level not 
exceeding the industry average of the past three consecutive fiscal years for 
commercial banks in the Philippines and, thereafter, the Borrower shall maintain such 
arrears percentage at such level.  The provisions of this Section 4.05 supercede the 
provisions of Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement dated January 29, 1999, and entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank for Loan Number 4422-PH (LGU Urban Water and 
Sanitation Project).
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain its profitability in real terms of not less than the average of the past 
three consecutive fiscal years and maintain the following financial ratios for each 
fiscal year commencing in fiscal year 2002: (i) ratio of risk assets to equity of not 
more than 8:1; and (ii) ratio of liquid assets to short term deposits of not less than 
45 %. 
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "risk assets" means total assets excluding cash, 
short-term deposits in banks, investment in government securities 
and fixed assets used in the course of the Borrower’s operations.
(ii)
The term "equity" means the sum total unimpaired paid-up capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to 
cover specific liabilities.
(iii)
The term "liquid assets" means cash, short-term deposits in banks 
and investment in government securities up to one year.
(iv)
The term "profitability in real terms" means audited net profits 
at the end of the fiscal year minus the equity net of fixed assets 
at the beginning of the same fiscal year, multiplied by the annual 
inflation rate. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(c)
(i)
Subject to clause (ii) of this paragraph (c): (A) the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the NDF Loan to the Borrower 
for the financing of Parts A(2), B(1) and B(3) of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the NDF Loan Agreement providing 
therefor; or (B) the NDF Loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Clause (i) of this paragraph (c) shall not apply if the Borrower 
or the Guarantor, as the case may be, establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the NDF Loan 
Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for Parts A(2), B(1) and B(3) of 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso in paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions; namely, Subloan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank have been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and at least ten (10) Participating Entities in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 (h) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Development Bank of the Philippines
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner
Makati Avenue
Makati, Metro Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
PHILDEBANK 22197
PHILCOM 22197 DBP PH 
632-815-1517
Manila 
GLOBE TELECOM 45128 DBP PM
EASTERN TELECOMS 63771 DBP PN
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Authorized Representative
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Remedios Macalincag
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Yen)
to be Financed
1.
Works, including supply
and installation of water
and sanitation systems, 
under:
(a) Type A Sub-projects
  2,521,975,500
90%
and Type C Sub-
projects
(b) Type B Sub-projects
    446,148,000
90%
2.
Consultants’ services
    204,484,500
100%
under Part B of the Project
3.
Interest accrued on or
    508,113,000
Amounts due pursuant
before July 31, 2006
to Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement
4.
Fee
     37,179,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
  3,717,900,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under Type A Sub-projects 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (ii) consultants’ services under 
contracts with firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each and under contracts 
with individuals, regardless of cost, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Yen a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by Bangko Sentral ng 
Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to JPY 
310,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to JPY 150,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of JPY 1,860,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of JPY 446,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second phase of the Program of LGU Urban Water and Sanitation 
Development of the Republic of the Philippines (the Program).  The objective of the 
Project is to assist selected LGUs to: (i) provide sustainable water and sanitation 
services; and (ii) strengthen their institutional and technical capacity for planning, 
budgeting and financial management of local services, including the water supply and 
sanitation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply, Sanitation and Drainage Services
(1)
Improvement of water supply, sanitation and drainage services in selected cities 
and municipalities through the financing of investment projects to construct, 
rehabilitate and expand water supply systems, on-site sanitation facilities and 
micro-drainage infrastructure.
(2)
Strengthening the capacity of selected LGUs for: (a) preparation of investment 
projects to improve water supply, sanitation and drainage services, operation and 
maintenance, including adequate treatment of the environmental and health aspects of 
water supply and sanitation services; and (b) implementation (including procurement) 
of investment projects, in each case  through the provision of consultants’ services, 
training and equipment. 
Part B:
Institutional Development in Preparation,  Implementation and 
Supervision of Investment Projects
(1)
Strengthening the capacity of selected LGUs for investment planning and 
financial management, through the provision of consultants’ services, training and 
equipment. 
(2)
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower, with respect to Sub-projects, for: 
(a) (i) supervision of construction carried out by Participating Entities; and (ii) 
supervision of environmental management, in each case through the provision of 
consultants’ services; and (b) monitoring and evaluation, through the provision of 
relevant data generated by consultants. 
(3)
Strengthening the capacity of: (a) the Borrower and DILG for overseeing the 
preparation and appraisal of investment projects, through the provision of 
consultants’ services, training and equipment; and (b) DOF, DILG and NEDA for 
overseeing the Program, through regular knowledge sharing.
*********
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement for Works under 
Type A Sub-projects and Type C Sub-projects
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for town clusters works contracts estimated to cost $1,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,940,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,770,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to each contract for works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedure referred to in: (i) paragraph 1 of Part B of this 
Section, regardless of cost; and (ii) paragraph 1 of Part C of this Section and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
(b)
With respect to the first three contracts each year to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of Part C of this Section, 
the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any contractor, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for institutional development under Part B(2) of the Project, may, with 
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for institutional development under Part B(2) of the Project for tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement for Works under Type B Sub-projects
Part A:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Parts B and C of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Private Sector or Commercial Practices 
Works that are estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.12 of the 
Guidelines, be procured in accordance with established local private sector or 
commercial practices that are acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Office with functions, 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank, managed and staffed with 
qualified and experienced personnel in adequate number, to coordinate, supervise and 
monitor the implementation of the Project. The Project Management Office shall 
collaborate with DILG in the carrying out of its responsibilities.
Sub-projects and Subloans
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall select 
Participating Entities and Sub-projects and make Subloans to such Participating 
Entities in accordance with the Borrower’s credit criteria and procedures and on terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.  Such 
criteria, procedures and terms and conditions shall include the following:
Criteria
(a)
Sub-project activities, such as construction, rehabilitation and 
expansion of water supply systems, on-site sanitation facilities and micro-drainage 
infrastructure, are eligible for financing under Subloans, provided that they are 
deemed technically feasible, financially viable and environmentally sound.
(b)
The Participating Entity shall have carried out a program of informed 
consultation with the beneficiary community, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding the 
level of water supply or drainage services, as the case may be, and gathered evidence 
of demand for such services from either (i) at least sixty percent (60%) of its 
households or (ii) the number of connections that will ensure full cost recovery for 
the proposed investments, whichever is lower.
(c)
Where the Participating Entity is a LGU, the municipal council and mayor 
of the LGU shall have passed resolutions to participate in the Project and to execute 
a Subloan Agreement with the Borrower, satisfactory to the Borrower.
Terms of Subloans
(d)
The principal amount of a Subloan shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) 
of the total civil works (including detailed design) costs of the related Sub-project 
(but excluding the cost of land) and 100% of capitalized interest of such Subloan and 
of construction supervision costs of the related Sub-project; and, except for Type C 
Sub-projects, the Participating Entity shall be required to contribute at least ten 
(10%) of the total Sub-project costs from internally generated revenues,  from its 
internal revenue allocation, or from other sources.
(e)
Repayment of each Subloan shall be made over a period not exceeding 
fifteen (15) years, inclusive of three (3) years grace.
(f)
Interest payable on each Subloan shall be at a rate freely negotiated 
between the Borrower and the Participating Entity and shall take into consideration 
the Borrower’s cost of funds, operating costs and credit risk.
Procedure, Terms and Conditions
(g)
The Borrower shall approve a Subloan to a Participating Entity only if 
such Participating Entity: 
(i)
has prepared an environmental assessment and an environmental 
management plan on the basis of standards satisfactory to the Bank 
and in accordance with the principles set forth in the Operational 
Manual; 
(ii)
has prepared a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank, 
in accordance with the principles set forth in the Operational 
Manual, in the event the Sub-project involves resettlement of 
Project Affected Persons; and
(iii)
has carried out consultations with and a process of informed 
participation by indigenous people, in accordance with principles 
set forth in the Operational Manual, in the event that the 
Sub-project impacts such people and to ensure that the design and 
implementation of the Sub-project adequately addresses the needs 
and cultural preferences of such people.
(h)
In respect of each Subloan, the Borrower shall enter into a Subloan 
Agreement with the relevant Participating Entity whereby the Borrower shall obtain 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including 
without limitation the rights to:
(i)
require the Participating Entity to carry out its Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, managerial, social and environmental 
standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require the Participating Entity to establish  prior to approval 
of a Subloan  and, thereafter, maintain a Project Management Unit 
with responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Bank, and managed and staffed with qualified personnel in 
adequate number to manage the implementation of its Sub-project;
(iii)
require that the works to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Subloan shall be procured in accordance with: (A)  the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement for a Type A Sub-project and a 
Type C Sub-project and shall be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Sub-project; and (B) the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement for a Type B Sub-project and shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(iv)
require that, for a Type C Sub-project, the Participating Entity 
shall undertake to onlend the proceeds of the Subloan as a Type C 
Sub-project Subsidiary Loan to a household in accordance with the 
Borrower’s credit criteria and procedures and on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, as set out in 
the Operational Manual.  Such criteria, procedures and terms and 
conditions shall include those set out in the Annex to this 
Schedule.   Additionally, the Participating Entity shall be 
required to: (a)  exercise its right in relation to each 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Participating Entity, the Borrower and the Bank, 
comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement and achieve the 
purposes of the Project; and (b) not, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(v)
require that the Participating Entity implement its environmental 
management plan, resettlement action plan and program of 
consultation with and informed participation by indigenous people, 
as the case may be, in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and 
the Bank;
(vi)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representative of the Bank such 
goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in the 
Sub-project, the operation thereof and any relevant records and 
documents;
(vii)
require that the Participating Entity provide to the Borrower and 
the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank may 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Participating Entity and to the benefits to be derived from its 
respective Sub-project;
(viii)require the Participating Entity to: (A) establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to its Sub-project; (B) have 
the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
clause (A) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; and (C) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, copies of the 
financial statements referred to in clause (A) above as so audited 
together with an opinion on such statements, records and accounts 
and 
report of such audit by said auditors;
(ix)
require that the Participating Entity take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in 
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; 
and
(x)
suspend, terminate the right of the Participating Entity to the 
use of the proceeds of the Subloan, or declare the principal of 
the Subloan then outstanding to be due and payable immediately 
together with interest thereon and all charges connected 
therewith, upon failure by such Participating Entity to perform 
its obligations under its Subloan Agreement with the Borrower.
3.
The Borrower:
(a)
shall exercise its right in relation to each Subloan Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; and
(b)
shall not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving 
any Subloan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Parts A, B(1) and B(2) and the relevant part of Part B(3)(a) of 
the Project (including implementation of environmental management plans, resettlement 
action plans and program of consultation with and informed participation by indigenous 
people referred to in paragraph 2(g) of this Schedule) and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank: (i) a semi-annual report on or about June 30 and December 31 of each 
year, commencing June 30, 2002, and (ii) a mid-term report on or about December 31, 
2003, in each case integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to clause (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the said Parts of the Project (including implementation of 
environmental management plans and resettlement action plans referred to in paragraph 
2(g) of this Schedule) during the period preceding the date of each such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in clause (b)(ii) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
Annex to Schedule 5
Type C Sub-project Subsidiary Loans
Criteria
1.
Type C Sub-project activities, such as construction, rehabilitation and 
expansion of a sanitation system, are eligible for financing under a Type C 
Sub-project Subsidiary Loan, provided that they are deemed technically feasible, 
financially viable and environmentally sound.
2.
Type C Sub-project activities, such as construction, rehabilitation and 
expansion of a sanitation system, are eligible for financing under a Type C 
Sub-project Subsidiary Loan, provided that there is an existing connection to the 
water supply system financed under the Project and to which the proposed sanitation 
system may be linked.  
Terms of Type C Sub-project Subsidiary Loans 
3.
The principal amount of a Type C Sub-project Subsidiary Loan shall not exceed 
ninety percent (90%) of the total costs of the related Sub-project (excluding the cost 
of land); and the household shall be required to contribute at least ten (10%) of the 
total Sub-project costs from its own resources.
4.
Repayment of each Type C Sub-project Subsidiary Loan shall be made over a period 
not exceeding fifteen (15) years, inclusive of three (3) years grace. 
5.
Interest payable on each Type C Sub-project Subsidiary Loan shall be at a rate 
freely negotiated between the Participating Entity and the household and shall take 
into consideration the Participating Entity’s cost of funds, operating costs and 
credit risk.
6.
In respect of each Type C Sub-project Subsidiary Loan, the Participating Entity 
shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the household whereby the 
Participating Entity shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Participating Entity, the Borrower and the Bank, including without limitation the 
rights to:
(a)
require the household to carry out its Type C Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
environmental standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that the works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Type C 
Sub-project Subsidiary Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Type C Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representative of the Bank such goods 
and the sites, works, plans and construction included in the Type C Sub-project, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the household provide to the Participating Entity, Borrower 
and the Bank all such information as the Participating Entity, Borrower or the Bank 
may reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and
(e)
suspend, terminate the right of the household to the use of the proceeds 
of the Type C Sub-project Subsidiary Loan, or declare the principal of the said 
subsidiary loan then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with 
interest thereon and all charges connected therewith, upon failure by such household 
to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Participating 
Entity.
SCHEDULE 6
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 1 and August 1
Beginning February 1, 2010 
through February 1, 2021
4.17%
On August 1, 2021
4.09%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate. 
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
