CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7045-PAN
Loan Agreement
(Land Administration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 2, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7045-PAN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 2, 2001, between the REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;  
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Administrative Arrangement” means the arrangement referred to in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement;
(b)
“ADR” means any legal dispute resolution mechanism, other than those 
provided by the judicial system;
(c)
“ANAM” means Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente, the Borrower’s national 
authority for the environment, an autonomous entity created pursuant to Law No. 41 of 
July 1, 1998;
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
(d)
“ANAM Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ANAM pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(e)
“CC” means Consejo Consultivo, the consultative council referred to in 
Section 3.06(c) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Comarca” means the indigenous territory established as a special 
political and administrative subdivision of the Borrower’s territory, pursuant to the 
procedure set forth in the Borrower’s political constitution; 
(g)
“CS” means Consejo Superior, the superior council referred to in Section 
3.06(a) of this Agreement; 
(h)
“CTO” means Comité Técnico-Operativo, The technical and operational 
committee referred to in Section 3.06(b) of this Agreement;
(i)
“DGCBP” means Dirección General de Catastro y Bienes Patrimoniales, the 
Borrower’s general directorate of cadastre and patrimony, established within MEF (as 
hereinafter defined), pursuant to Law 63 of July 31, 1973, as such law has been 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(j)
“DGL” means Dirección de Gobiernos Locales, the Borrower’s directorate of 
local governments, established within MINGOJ (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to 
ministerial resolution No. 137 of January 31, 1995;
(k)
“DINRA” means Dirección Nacional de Reforma Agraria, the Borrower’s 
directorate of agrarian reform, within MIDA (as hereinafter defined), established 
pursuant Law 12 of January 25, 1973;
(l)
“DPI” means Dirección de Política Indigenista, the Borrower’s directorate 
of indigenous policy, established within MINGOJ, pursuant to Law 18 of February 14, 
1952;
(m)
“DPS” means Dirección de Política Social, the Borrower’s directorate of 
social policy, established within MEF (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to Law 97 of 
December 1998; 
(n)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(o)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
“IGNTG” means Instituto Geográfico Nacional Tommy Guardia, the Borrower’s 
geographic institute, within MOP (as hereinafter defined), established pursuant to 
decree (Decreto-Ley) No. 8 of 1968, as such decree has been amended to the date of 
this Agreement; 
(q)
“Implementation Agreements” means collectively the ANAM Implementation 
Agreement and the RP Implementation Agreement (as hereinafter defined); 
(r)
“Implementing Entities” means collectively ANAM, MIDA through DINRA, MEF 
through DGCBP and DPS, MINGOJ through DGL and DPI, MOP through IGNTG, and RP (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(s) 
“Indicators” means the indicators set forth in Attachment I of the 
supplemental letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith, which sets 
forth the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(t)
“Indigenous Peoples Territories” means the Comarcas of Ngobe Bugle and 
Kuna Yala, and the Teribe Naso Region (as hereinafter defined); 
(u)
“Institutional Framework” means the institutional structure to be 
established pursuant to executive decree, for the implementation of the Project;   
(v)
“Land Administration Entities” means collectively the Implementation 
Entities, the corresponding municipalities within the Project Area, as well as any 
other entity acceptable to the Bank; 
(w)
“Land Administration Services” means the services provided by the 
Implementing Entities comprising, inter alia, Land Regularization Activities, land use 
and management information, and land demarcation;
(x)
“Land Regularization Activities” means the activities to be carried out 
under the Project, of mapping, legal cadastre, land rights legalization, field 
surveys, land titling and registration, conflict resolution and other minor technical 
and legal activities, such as name rectification and surface corrections; 
(y)
“Legal Framework” means: (i) the Borrower’s agrarian code established 
pursuant to Law 37 of 1962, as such code has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement; (ii) Law 63 of July 31, 1973, which created DGCBP, as such law has been 
amended to the date of this Agreement; (iii) Law 41 of July 1, 1998 which created 
ANAM, as such law has been amended to the date of this Agreement; (iv) Law No. 3 of 
January 6, 1999, which established the autonomy of the RP, as such law has been 
amended to the date of this Agreement; and (v) Chapter 16 of Law 56 of December 28, 
1995, which regulates procurement of the Borrower’s national patrimony, as such law 
has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(z)
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s ministry of 
economy and finance;
(aa)
 “MIDA” means Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario, the Borrower’s 
ministry of agricultural development;
(bb)
“MINGOJ” means Ministerio de Gobierno y Justicia, the Borrower’s ministry 
of governance and justice; 
(cc)
“MOP” means Ministerio de Obras Públicas, the Borrower’s ministry of 
public works; 
(dd)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for Land Regularization  Activities 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(ee)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(ff)
“PIP” means Plan de Implementación del Proyecto, the project 
implementation plan referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement;
(gg)
“Project Area” means the physical area covered by the Provinces of  Bocas 
del Toro, Chiriquí, Veraguas, Panamá, Colón, Coclé, Los Santos, Herrera, and others as 
the Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time;  
(hh)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(ii)
“Project Protected Areas” means the protected areas of Cerro Hoya, Boca 
Vieja, Sarigua, Las Macanas, Cenegón del Mangle, La Tronosa, Tonosí, Peñón de la 
Honda, Isla Cañas, Peñón del Cedro, Portobelo, Palo Seco, La Amistad, San San Pond 
Sak, Isla Bastimento, Volcán Barú, La Barqueta Agrícola, Fortuna, Lagunas de Volcán, 
La Yeguada, Los Pozos de Calobre, El Salto de las Palmas, Omar Torrijos, Galeta, Isla 
Iguana, Golfo Chiriquí, San Lorenzo (Sherman), Lago Gatún, Montuoso, Golfo de Montijo 
and others as the Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time;
(jj)
“Proposed Protected Areas” means the areas currently proposed by the 
Borrower for incorporation under SINAP, namely: Chorogó-Palo Blanco, and Gualaca in 
the Province of Chiriquí, Isla Escudo de Veraguas in the Province of Boca del Toro, 
Santa Fé in the Province of Veraguas, and Cerro Gaital in the Province of Coclé, and 
others as the Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time;
(kk)
 “Resettlement Process Framework” means the framework set forth in 
Attachment II of the supplemental letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date 
herewith; 
(ll)
“RP” means Registro Público, the Borrower’s public registry, an 
autonomous agency created pursuant to Law No. 3 of January 6, 1999;
(mm)
“RP Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and RP pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(nn)
“Selected Comarcas” means the indigenous territories of Ngobe Bugle and 
Kuna Yala, established pursuant to Law 10 of March 1997 and Law 2 of September 1938, 
respectively, and others as the Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time; 
(oo)
“Selected Protected Areas” means those Project Protected Areas which meet 
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for the carrying out of the 
activities described in Part C.1 (d), (e) and (f) of the Project;  
(pp)
“SIICAR” means Sistema Integrado de Información, Catastro y Registro, the 
Borrower’s Integrated System of Information, Cadastre and Registry; 
(qq)
“SINAP” means Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas, the Borrower’s system 
of protected areas, established pursuant to Law No. 41 of July 1, 1998;  
(rr)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
of this Agreement; 
(ss)
“Teribe Naso Region” means one of the Borrower’s indigenous areas in 
process of being legally recognized and established; and
(tt)
“UTO” means each of the units referred to in Section 3.05(b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty-seven 
million nine hundred thousand Dollars ($47,900,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of 
the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 1st  and October 1st  in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount 
of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the 
Conversion Guidelines.
(d)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the corresponding Implementing Entities, with the assistance 
of the PCU, as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, pursuant to the 
Implementation Agreements and the Administrative Arrangement, as the case may be, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, legal, environmental, technical, cultural and land adjudication and 
registration practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or shall cause Part B and C of the Project 
to be carried out, in accordance with an operational manual (the Operational Manual) 
satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to provide key instruments for Land 
Regularization Activities, demarcation activities and the execution and coordination 
of Part B and C of the Project. 
(c)
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, consultants’ and other services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
enter into an agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank with:
(i)
ANAM (the ANAM Implementation Agreement) setting forth their 
respective 
responsibilities in the implementation of Parts A.1, 
A.2, A.3, A.5, A.4, 
B.2, B.3, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the 
Project; and
(ii)
RP (the RP Implementation Agreement) setting forth their 
respective 
responsibilities in the implementation of 
Parts A.2, A.3, B.2 B.3, C.1 and 
C.2 of the Project.
(b)
exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreements in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreements or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the PCU to enter into an 
inter-institutional administrative arrangement (the Administrative Arrangement) with: 
(a) MIDA through DINRA; (b) MEF, through DGCBP and DPS; (c) MINGOJ, through DGL and 
DPI; and (d) MOP through IGNTG, setting forth their respective responsibilities in the 
implementation of the Project, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such 
Arrangement shall not be amended or assigned. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
create and maintain, during the execution of the Project, within MEF and 
under the supervision of CS, a project coordination unit (the PCU) responsible for the 
financial management, coordination, monitoring, and supervision of the Project, with a 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and staff (including a Project 
coordinator) with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b)
cause the PCU to create temporary decentralized units (UTOs) at the 
provincial level for the technical and operational implementation and supervision of 
the activities under Part B and C of the Project, with staff with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
cause the PCU to prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, adopt, and update on a regular basis a manual for the implementation of 
financial and administrative procedures in respect of the Project.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower  shall create and maintain during the execution of the 
Project:
(a)
a decision-making council (the CS) to assist the Borrower in the 
development of new policies regarding Land Administration Services, such council to 
have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to include among its 
members representatives of ANAM, MEF, MIDA, MINGOJ, MOP, and the RP; 
(b)
a operative technical committee (the CTO) to assist the Borrower in 
Project implementation, such committee to have a structure and functions satisfactory 
to the Bank, and to include among its members: the PCU coordinator and representatives 
of the Implementing Entities; and
(c)
a civil society consultative council (the CC) as a co-management 
mechanism to promote civil society’s participation in Land Administration Services, in 
accordance with Part A.3 of the Project. 
Section 3.07 For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 15 of each year throughout the course of Project 
implementation, starting as of April 15, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar year preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by not later than August 15 of each year throughout 
the course of Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank shall request, 
starting as of August 15, 2002 the relevant report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare by not later than December 10 of 
each year throughout the course of Project implementation, starting as on December 10, 
2001, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the annual work program for the 
implementation of the Project during the following calendar year; and (b) thereafter 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, said plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.10 The Borrower shall ensure that no regularization of private land 
titles or claims shall be granted or settled in lands within or adjacent to: (a) 
Project Protected Areas, unless a physical demarcation has been conducted in a way 
satisfactory to the Bank;  or  (b)  Proposed Protected Areas unless: (i) a government 
decision has been reached regarding the establishment of such protected area, and (ii) 
technical studies of such area, satisfactory to the Bank, has been completed.
Section 3.11 The Borrower, shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project, or 
shall cause such Parts to be carried out, in accordance with the Resettlement Process 
Framework.
Section 3.12 The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or shall cause the 
Project to be carried out in accordance with an implementation plan (the PIP), 
satisfactory to the Bank, said plan to include inter alia, a detail description of 
Project components and activities.
Section 3.13 The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, and maintenance, respectively) shall be carried out: (a) by ANAM and RP in 
respect of the Project Parts of the Project under their responsibility, and (b) by the 
Borrower, through MIDA, MEF, MINGOJ and MOP in respect of the Parts of the Project 
under their responsibility.
Section 3.14 The Borrower shall implement and maintain, at all times, the 
cost-recovery mechanisms referred to in Part A.2 (e) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and a report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including as part 
of the 
information to be provided in each such report, a management letter 
concerning the Borrower’s internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation 
targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that ANAM or RP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Implementation Agreements; and
(b)
that any provision of any law included in the Legal Framework shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such manner so 
as to affect materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank,  the ability 
of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
that any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
that any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Implementation Agreements and the Administrative Arrangement have 
been entered into between the respective parties thereto, and approved by CS;
(b)
the Institutional Framework has been established;
(c)
the PCU has been established and staffed, and is operating; 
(d)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and the CTO;
(e)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank shall has been established; and
(f)
the PIP has been approved by the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date July 2, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
Dirección de Crédito Público
Via España, Calle 52
Edificio OGAWA 4 Piso
Panamá, República de Panamá
Facsimile:
(507) 223-1405
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Panama City, Panama, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Norberto Delgado
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ John Redwood
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean 
AGREED:
CONTRALORIA GENERAL DE LA REPUBLICA
By /s/ Alvin Weeden
       Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) Civil works
   700,000
85%
(b) Aerial photography and    800,000
85%
mapping 
(2)
Goods
 8,000,000
100% of expenditures
made by a tax exempt
agency; 100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
15,850,000
100%
(4)
Services under Land
14,750,000
85%
Regularization Activities
(5)
Training
 1,900,000
100%
(6)
Operating costs
 3,200,000
100% during the first
two years following
Effective Date; 70%
during the third
year following
Effective Date; and
35% thereafter
(7)
Premia for Interest
   -0-
Amount due under
Rate Caps and Interest
Section 2.09(d) of this
Rate Collars
Agreement 
(8)
Unallocated
 2,221,000
(9)
Front-end fee
   479,000 
Amount due pursuant
to Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
TOTAL
47,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “training” means the expenditures incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including 
travel costs and per diem of trainees, study tours, rental of facilities and 
equipment, and training materials; but excluding consultants’ fees; and
(d)
the term “operating costs” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower 
for recurrent costs associated with the implementation of the Project, including: (i) 
operation and maintenance of vehicles, including repairs, fuel and spare parts; (ii) 
maintenance of computer, geodetic and office equipment; (iii) office supplies, rental 
of office facilities and utilities associated with the PCU; (iv) transportation costs, 
approved by the Bank; (v) travel and per diem costs for technical staff which will 
carry out supervisory activities under the Project; and (vi) audits. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000 on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date, but after July 30, 2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for training and operating costs and for 
goods, works,  consultant services, and services under Land Regularization Activities; 
which are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to Sections I, Part D.3 and 
Section II, Part D.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Banco Nacional de Panamá, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount 
of $3,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed $9,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to promote equitable access to land and  
improve land tenure security by providing Land Administration Services in the Project 
Area; and (b) to enhance natural resources conservation through the consolidation of 
SINAP and Indigenous Peoples Territories.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Land Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework, and Project Monitoring
1.
Improvement of the existing policy, legal and institutional framework governing 
the provision of Land Administration Services, including the institutional 
strengthening and service decentralization of Land Administration Entities, through: 
(a) the carrying out of technical studies and participatory consultations with 
stakeholders for the formulation of new land policies and institutional reforms; (b) 
the preparation of the required reforms to the legal and institutional framework 
governing Land Administration Services; and (c) the provision of technical assistance 
for the preparation of future investment programs related to rural sustainable 
development.
2.
Strengthening of the technical and administrative capabilities of Land 
Administration Entities at national and local level, through: (a) the development and 
implementation of an integrated information system (SIICAR) and its network in 
Provinces and Districts to be selected by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; (b) the identification of training and human resources needs and capacity 
building activities for Land Administration Entities, including the provision of 
training; (c) the provision of technical assistance and institutional strengthening 
for the decentralization of Land Administration Services; (d) the establishment and 
implementation of quality control measures for Land Regularization Activities; (e) the 
development of new and improvement of existing cost-recovery mechanisms for Land 
Regularization Activities; and (f) the development of a general system for land 
valuation and taxation of land.  
3.
Establishment and operation of co-management mechanisms among Implementing 
Entities, and between said Implementing Entities and civil society, both at central 
and local level, for the coordination of the provision of Land Administration 
Services.
4.
Carrying out of a program to increase the participation of local stakeholders 
and municipalities in the provision of Land Administration Services, through: (a) the 
dissemination of the legal framework governing Land Administration Services, and the 
provision of legal assistance, training and operative support to grassroots 
organizations; (b) the organization of round tables; and (c) the strengthening of the 
municipalities’ technical and managerial capacity in Land Administration Services. 
5.
Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the Project.
6.
Strengthening of the capacity of the PCU to assist the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Project.
Part B:
Land Regularization Activities
1.
Modernization of the Borrower’s geodetic network, through: (a) the updating of 
the Borrower’s geodetic network; (b) the establishment of two stations for geodetic 
control; and (c) the production of ortho-photo maps, base maps and satellite images 
for cartographic purposes.
2.
Gathering and analysis of land tenure related data in the Project Area, through: 
(a) the carrying out of a campaign to inform stakeholders with respect to the 
activities referred to in (b) herein; (b) the carrying out of legal cadastre surveys 
and area-based measurement and land demarcation activities; (c) the digitization of 
graphic and alphanumeric information; (d) the comparison of acquired data with 
existing public records; (e) the carrying out of public viewing of survey results; (f) 
the carrying out of land certification, titling and property registration; (g) the 
development of a unified methodology for Land Regularization Activities; (h) the 
provision of the necessary training to the staff of the Land Administration Entities 
on the implementation of said unified methodology for Land Regularization Activities; 
and (i) the integration of the field information into SIICAR. 
3.
Carrying out of a program to facilitate resolution of land-related conflicts, 
through: (a) the establishment of ADR mechanisms; (b) the organization of conflict 
resolution teams to facilitate the implementation of ADR mechanisms at the local 
level; (c) the carrying out of a campaign for the diffusion of ADR mechanisms; and (d) 
the provision of specialized training on ADR mechanisms to grassroots organizations 
and other private parts.
Part C:
Consolidation of Protected Areas and Indigenous Territories
1.
Consolidation of SINAP, through: (a) the gathering of relevant information on 
protected areas located in the Project Area and the carrying out of digital mapping 
activities and consultative and informational meetings with local stakeholders; (b) 
the carrying out of socioeconomic and tenure studies, including a rapid ecological 
assessment, of protected areas located in the Project Area; (c) the carrying out of 
physical demarcation activities in protected areas located in the Project Area, 
including the participatory decision-making process needed to define the boundaries 
and status of the demarcated area; (d) the development of management plans in Selected 
Protected Areas; (e) the development and implementation, on a pilot basis, of a 
specific land regularization methodology within Selected Protected Areas; (f) the 
development, on a pilot basis, of a process of co-management in Selected Protected 
Areas; and (g) the strengthening of the regional operational capacity of ANAM.
2.
Establishment and consolidation of Proposed Protected Areas within SINAP, 
through: (a) the gathering of relevant information on Proposed Protected Areas, 
including aerial photographs, satellite images and maps; (b) the carrying out of land 
tenure, social and rapid ecological assessments in Proposed Protected Areas; (c) the 
preparation of legal studies and drafting of the necessary legal instruments required 
for the legalization of Proposed Protected Areas; (d) the carrying out of demarcation 
activities in Proposed Protected Areas; and (e) the participatory development of 
management plans for Proposed Protected Areas.
3.
Establishment and consolidation of indigenous territories, through: (a) the 
carrying out of technical and baseline studies to provide the foundation for the 
regularization and legalization of Selected Comarcas; (b) the preparation of the draft 
law and charter required to establish and legally recognize the Naso Teribe Region, 
and the updating of the charters of Selected Comarcas; (c) the carrying out of 
physical demarcations of Selected Comarcas; (d) the establishment of ADR mechanisms in 
Selected Comarcas; (e) the provision of training in ADR mechanisms to indigenous 
peoples and grassroots associations’ leaders; (f) the carrying out of public 
information campaigns among indigenous peoples regarding the land demarcation and 
regularization process; and (g) the strengthening of the institutional capacity of 
indigenous organizations regarding land regularization and consolidation activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 1st and October 1st 
5%
Beginning April 1, 2006 through
October 1, 2015
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal Payment Date 
shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any 
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods, Works, and Land Regularization Activities
Part A:
General
Goods, works, and services under Land Regularization Activities shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 
and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and services under 
Land Regularization Activities shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and Land Regularization 
Activities shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or 
more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $958,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines; and (b) goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 but 
more than $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,320,000 
equivalent, and services under Land Regularization Activities estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $3,830,000 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,050,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $958,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with Part B.1 above, the 
first three contracts procured in accordance with Part C.1 above and the first three 
contracts procured in accordance with Part C.2 and C.3 above, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: 
the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or less per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of $7,338,000 shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply;
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference and 
terms of employment shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given;
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given; and
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III. Special Provisions
 
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule: 
1.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to:
(a)
have a local representative for purposes of  submitting bids;
(b)
be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; and
(c)
be associated with local contractors or suppliers.
2.
Bids may be:
(a)
submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail or 
courier or in person; and
(b)
accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the 
standard bidding documents.
3.
No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
4.
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
 
5.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard 
bidding documents.
6.
After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time 
period, and in form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this 
Schedule:
1.    Bids may be:
(a)
submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail or 
courier or in person; and
(b)
accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the 
standard bidding documents.
2.
No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
 
3.
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
 
4.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard 
bidding documents.
5.
Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization advances, whenever 
appropriate.
6.
After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time 
period and in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
7.
Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may be included in work 
contracts.
C.
In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants’ services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(a)
be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection 
process;
(b)
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any 
local firm or person for the purposes of participating in the selection process or 
receiving an award, except in connection with a joint venture arrangement where:  (i) 
a sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow 
a foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either 
party to the joint venture arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed 
manner or extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required to 
associate itself with any specific named domestic firms or individual consultants;
(c)
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal 
capacity or tax status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and
(d)
personally submit their proposals.
 
2.
Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms invited to submit 
proposals on the basis of terms of reference, employment conditions and evaluation 
criteria clearly set forth in the respective letter of invitation.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Entities
Part of the Project Implementing Entities
A.1
MIDA (DINRA) and ANAM.
A.2
ANAM, MOP (IGNTG), MINGOJ (DPI and DGL), MEF (DGCBP and DPS), RP, and MIDA 
(DINRA).
A.3
ANAM, MOP (IGNTG), MINGOJ (DPI and DGL), MEF (DGCBP), RP, and MIDA (DINRA).
A.4
MINGOJ (DGL and DPI), ANAM.
A.5
ANAM, MEF (DPS).
A.6
(PCU).
B.1
MEF (DGCBP), MIDA (DINRA), and MOP (IGNTG).
B.2
ANAM, MEF (DGCBP), RP, MOP (IGNTG) and MIDA (DINRA).
B.3
MEF (DGCBP), RP, ANAM and MIDA (DINRA).
C.1
MEF (DGCBP), RP, MIDA (DINRA), and ANAM.
C.2
MEF (DGCBP), RP, MIDA (DINRA), and ANAM.
C.3
MINGOJ (DGL and DPI) and ANAM. 
