CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4665 IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
(Mumbai Urban Transport Project) 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 5, 2002 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4665 IN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 2002, between INDIA, acting by its President 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out in part by the State of Maharashtra 
(Maharashtra) and in part by Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation Limited (MRVC), with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part of 
the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to Maharashtra and part of the proceeds thereof to MRVC, as set forth in this Agreement;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Development Association 
(the Association) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the 
Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to provide such assistance 
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to sixty two million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 62,500,000) (the Credit); and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, the agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank and 
Maharashtra (the Maharashtra Project Agreement), and the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and MRVC (the MRVC Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the IBRD General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
 
-
-
2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a).  
“BEST” means the Brihan Mumbai Electrical Supply and Transportation, a 
public undertaking wholly-owned and controlled by MCGM; 
 
(b)      “BEST Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to 
in Section 2.05 (a) (iv) of the Maharashtra Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the BEST Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement; 
 
(c)       “CEA” means the consolidated environmental impact assessment, dated 
April 2002, issued by Maharashtra, setting forth a comprehensive overview of the 
environmental aspects of the Project, including potential environmental impacts, 
measures to protect cultural property and the natural habitat, air quality and noise 
pollution standards, proposed management and mitigation measures, and the relevant 
institutional framework required or appropriate to manage environmental issues; 
 
(d)       “CEMP” means the Community Environment Management Plan referred 
to in paragraph 7 (a) (ii) of Schedule 2 to the Maharashtra Project Agreement; 
 
(e)       “EA” means an  environmental impact assessment referred to in paragraph 
6 (a) (i) of Schedule 2 to the Maharashtra Project Agreement or paragraph 4 (a) (i) of 
Schedule 2 to the MRVC Project Agreement, as the case may be; 
 
(f)       “Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(g)      “Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h)      “EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan referred to in 
paragraph 6 (a) (ii) of Schedule 2 to the Maharashtra Project Agreement or paragraph 4 
(a) (ii) of Schedule 2 to the MRVC Project Agreement, as the case may be; 
 
(i)       “Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year, beginning    
April 1 in any calendar year and ending March 31 in the following calendar year; 
 
(j)      “Maharashtra” means the State of Maharashtra, a State of India; 
 
(k)      “Maharashtra Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and Maharashtra of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
-
-
3
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Maharashtra 
Project Agreement; 
 
(l)  
“MCGM” means Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai; 
 
(m)      “MCGM Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement referred 
to in Section 2.05 (a) (iii) of the Maharashtra Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the MCGM 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; 
 
(n)       “MMR” means the Mumbai Metropolitan Region; 
 
(o)      “MMRDA” means the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development 
Authority; 
 
(p)      “MoR” means Ministry of Railways of the Borrower; 
 
(q)      “MRVC” means the Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation Limited, a public 
sector undertaking jointly owned by the Borrower and Maharashtra; 
 
(r)      “MRVC Memorandum of Understanding” means the agreement referred to 
in Section 3.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules to the MRVC Memorandum of Understanding; 
 
(s)      “MRVC Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
MRVC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the MRVC Project 
Agreement; 
 
(t)      “MRVC Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to 
in Section 2.05 (a) (i) of the Maharashtra Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the MRVC 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; 
 
(u)      “MSRDC” means the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation; 
 
(v)      “MSRDC Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement referred 
to in Section 2.05 (a) (ii) of the Maharashtra Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the MSRDC 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; 
 
(w)       “NGO” means non-governmental organization; 
 
(x)      “PAPs” means Project-Affected Persons, including households, business 
units; workers; owners of land, buildings and other assets affected by the Project; non-
-
-
4
resident landowners; non-resident lessees; resident landlords; resident lessees, tenants and 
sub-tenants; squatters; pavement dwellers; and male and female members of households, 
their family members and relatives living under their protection or control; 
 
(y)  
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 2 to the Maharashtra Project Agreement; 
 
(z)      “PMU” means Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of 
Schedule 2 to the Maharashtra Project Agreement; 
 
(aa)       “Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the Borrower’s Project 
Implementation Plan, dated May 2002, giving details of operational guidelines and 
procedures agreed upon with the Association and the Bank for the implementation, 
monitoring and supervision of the Project, including: (i) project management 
arrangements and procedures, and implementation schedules; (ii) procedures for the 
selection of Subprojects; (iii) administrative, accounting and financial procedures; (iv) 
procurement and disbursement arrangements; (v) performance indicators, monitoring and 
evaluation guidelines; (vi) social and environmental assessment methodology; and (vii) 
institutional and monitoring procedures to ensure strict compliance with social and 
environmental safeguard measures and reporting obligations thereunder; 
 
(bb) 
    “Project Implementing Agency” or “PIA” means anyone or more of 
the following agencies responsible for the implementation of the Project:  
 
(i) 
in the case of Part A of the Project, MRVC; 
 
(ii) 
in the case of Parts B.1, B.2 (c), and B.4 (a), (b), (d) and (g) of the 
Project, MCGM;  
 
(iii) 
in the case of Part B.3 of the Project, BEST;  
 
(iv) 
in the case of Parts B.2 (a) and (b) of the Project, MSRDC; and 
 
(v) 
in the case of Parts B.4 (c), (e) and (f), and C of the Project, 
MMRDA; 
 
(cc)       “Project Management Report” means a report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Maharashtra Project Agreement or MRVC Project Agreement, as the 
case may be; 
 
(dd) 
     “Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of 
the Bank on November 15, 1994, and on behalf of the Borrower on December 13, 1994; 
 
-
-
5
(ee)  
“R & R” means the resettlement and rehabilitation activities under Part C 
of the Project; 
 
(ff)         “RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan, dated April 2002, issued by 
Maharashtra, giving details of policy provisions and the legal and institutional framework 
governing R & R, including the magnitude of land acquisition and displacement, findings 
of socio-economic surveys and baseline characteristics, organizational responsibilities, 
the process for two-stage resettlement, generic timetable for construction of transit and 
permanent housing units, consolidated costs and budgets, and performance criteria and 
process monitoring indicators; 
 
(gg) 
      “RIP” means the resettlement implementation plan referred to in 
paragraph 7 (a) (i) of Schedule 2 to the Maharashtra Project Agreement; 
 
(hh) 
      “ROB” means Road Over Rail Bridges; 
 
(ii)         “SEMP” means the Sectoral-level Environment Management Plan,         
dated May 2002, giving details of policy, legal and administrative measures appropriate 
or required to mitigate and manage potential environmental impacts arising at the sectoral 
level as a result of the Project or any part thereof; 
 
(jj)         “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(kk) 
      “Subproject” means any civil works, or other rail or road network 
construction, extension or expansion activity, under the Project; 
 
(ll)         “Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means any one or more of the BEST 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, MCGM Subsidiary Financing Agreement, MRVC 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement and MSRDC Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and 
 
(mm) 
      “TMU” means Traffic Management Unit of MCGM. 
 
-
-
6
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred 
sixty three million dollars ($463,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(b)  
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date 
of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from 
and including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next 
following Interest Payment Date. 
-
-
7
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of 
 
this Agreement. 
 
(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) “LIBOR Total Spread” means for each Interest Period: (A) three-  
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
-
-
8
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement: 
 
(i) 
shall cause Maharashtra to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Maharashtra Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Maharashtra therein set forth;  
 
(ii) 
acting through MoR, shall cause MRVC to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the MRVC Project Agreement 
all the obligations of MRVC therein set forth; 
 
(iii) 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Maharashtra and MRVC, respectively, to 
perform such obligations; and  
 
(iv) 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
make the entire proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part B of the 
Project, as well as half the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part 
A of the Project, available to Maharashtra in accordance with the 
Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance 
to the States of India; and 
 
(ii) 
acting through MoR, make available the other half of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A of the Project to MRVC 
under a memorandum of understanding (hereinafter referred to 
as MRVC Memorandum of Understanding) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and MRVC, on a non-reimbursable basis, 
and under such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, acting through MoR, exercise its rights under the 
MRVC Memorandum of Understanding in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
-
-
9
Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
MRVC Memorandum of Understanding or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Maharashtra Project Agreement and MRVC Project Agreement, respectively. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Maharashtra and 
MRVC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Maharashtra Project Agreement and MRVC 
Project Agreement, respectively. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at 
least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made; and 
 
(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
-
-
10
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and 
 
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take steps to ensure that the surcharge collection 
in suburban railway tariffs shall be promptly approved and implemented. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
 Maharashtra or MRVC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Maharashtra Project Agreement or MRVC Project Agreement, respectively; 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
Maharashtra or MRVC will be able to perform its obligations under the Maharashtra 
Project Agreement or MRVC Project Agreement, respectively. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
-
-
11
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a)  
the MRVC Memorandum of Understanding has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and MRVC;  
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Financing Agreements have been executed on behalf of 
their respective parties. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
the Maharashtra Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Maharashtra, and is legally binding upon Maharashtra in accordance with its terms; 
 
(b) 
the MRVC Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
MRVC, and is legally binding upon MRVC in accordance with its terms;  
 
(c) 
the MRVC Memorandum of Understanding has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and MRVC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
MRVC in accordance with its terms; and  
 
(d) 
the Subsidiary Financing Agreements have been duly authorized or 
ratified by the respective parties thereto, and are legally binding upon the respective 
parties thereto in accordance with their terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
-
-
12
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable address:  
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
953-31-66175 FINE IN 
91-11-3013133 or 
 
New Delhi 
953-31-61430 FINE IN 
91-11-3017511 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
-
-
13
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India 
 
-
-
14
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works: 
 
80% 
 
(a)  under Part A of 
9,700,000 
 
the Project 
 
(b)  under Part B of 
97,260,000 
 
 
the Project 
 
(2)      Goods:  
 
 
         100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
(a) under Part A of 
284,630,000 
of local expenditures 
 
the Project 
 
(ex-factory cost); and 
 
80% of local expen 
 
(b)  under Part B of 
25,720,000 
-ditures for other  
 
the Project 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services: 
 
 
80% 
 
(a) under Part A of 
8,510,000 
 
the Project 
 
(b) under Part B of 
20,490,000 
 
the Project 
 
-
-
15
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(4) 
Services of NGOs and 
 
 
100% 
 
educational institutions, and  
 
training 
 
(a) under Part A of                                 560,000 
 
the Project 
 
(b) under Part B of                                 500,000 
 
the Project 
 
(5) 
Refunding of PPF 
3,000,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Advance 
 
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(6) Fee 
 4,630,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of 
 
this Agreement 
 (7) Unallocated                                          8,000,000 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL                                        463,000,000 
 
========= 
 
 
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)     the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b)     the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000 may be made in 
respect of Category (3) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures under Subprojects incurred before that date but after 
September 1, 2001, subject, however, to compliance with social and environmental 
provisions applicable to such Subprojects and set forth in the Maharashtra Project 
Agreement and MRVC Project Agreement. 
-
-
16
 
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts not exceeding 
$500,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent 
each; (iii) services of consultants under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each, 
in the case of consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent each, in the case of individual 
consultants; and (iv) training and studies; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a)     until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report; 
and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and 
 
(b)     upon receipt by the Bank of the first Project Management Report, 
accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a)     if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 of the 
Maharashtra Project Agreement or MRVC Project Agreement; 
 
(b)     if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or 
 
-
-
17
 
(c)     if the Borrower, Maharashtra or Indian Railways shall have failed to 
furnish to the Bank within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, or Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Maharashtra Project Agreement or MRVC 
Project Agreement, as the case may be, any of the audit reports required to be furnished 
to the Bank pursuant to said Sections in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records, accounts and financial statements 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a)     If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b)     If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c)     The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d)     Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
-
-
18
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $150,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
 
(b)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
-
-
19
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
-
-
20
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, 
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $60,000,000. 
-
-
21
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to facilitate urban economic growth and 
improve quality of life by fostering the development of an efficient and sustainable urban 
transport system including effective institutions to meet the needs of the users in the 
Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Rail Transport Component
1. 
Service Efficiency Improvements
(a) 
Carrying out of a program of optimization of Western Railway, including 
lengthening of platforms, re-signaling, increased power capacity, removal of level 
crossings, establishment of one new station at Oshiwara, introduction of additional trains, 
and increase in the spacing between the centre lines of the two tracks between Virar and 
Dahanu. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of a program of optimization of Central Railway, including 
lengthening of platforms, increased power supply, re-conditioning of track, re-signaling 
of slow and fast tracks, removal of one level crossing at Vikhroli and removal of speed 
restrictions on turnouts at Dadar, Kurla and Thane, and introduction of additional trains. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out of a program of optimization of Harbour Line Railway, 
including increased power supply, improvement in track and drainage structures, and re-
signaling, and introduction of additional trains. 
 
(d)  
Conversion of the entire Mumbai suburban railway system (excluding 
CST–Thane section of Central Railway) from 1500V DC to 25,000V AC traction, 
including modification of overhead catenary, establishment of new traction power 
substations and modifications to signal and telecommunications systems. 
 
(e) 
Provision of improved maintenance equipment and facilities, including 
improved track maintenance, improvement to drainage system, car shed maintenance 
works and provision of equipment for the development of modern facilities for 
maintenance of trains at Virar. 
 
-
-
22
2. 
New Rolling Stock/Kits. Implementation of a program designed to increase the 
capacity and frequency of train service on the Mumbai suburban rail service, including 
acquisition of new Electric Multiple Units (EMUs), as well as kits to be used to convert 
existing trains from DC to DC/AC operation. 
 
3. 
Network Expansion
(a) 
Provision of a railway line on the Western Railway between Santacruz 
and Mahim, and modification of the Harbor Line flyover at Mahim, and introduction of 
additional trains. 
 
(b) 
Provision of an additional pair of tracks on the Western Railway between 
Borivali and Virar, and four lines between Borivali and Churchgate for suburban 
services, construction of a two-km bridge at Vasai creek, and a new maintenance shed at 
Virar, and introduction of additional trains. 
 
(c) 
Construction of two additional railway lines covering a distance of 16 
km on the Central Railway between Kurla and Thane, and introduction of additional 
trains. 
 
4. 
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance. Provision of technical 
advisory services to undertake studies, training and engineering designs in a number of 
areas, including: station design and engineering; track maintenance and drainage 
improvements; strengthening of rolling stock maintenance system and design of facilities, 
overhead equipment and sub-station optimization; development or strengthening, as the 
case may be, of commercial development strategy of Indian Railways; development or 
strengthening, as the case may be, of financial, costing and project management systems; 
strengthening of quality control and testing processes for suburban rolling stock; 
enhancement of the reliability of signals and telecommunications, costing system for 
sharing of costs for common rail infrastructure; updating of the urban rail transport 
strategy through a simulation study; and pre-investment studies. 
 
Part B: Road-based Transport Component
1. 
Traffic Management
(a)  
Implementation of a computer-controlled area traffic control system for 
the island city of Mumbai, including traffic signals, controllers and vehicle detection 
equipment, a central computer, communications system, control rooms, together with 
junction channelisation, minor junction improvements, and provision for signal-
controlled pedestrian crossings. 
 
(b) 
Provision of pedestrian crossings, pedestrian bridges or underpasses at 
critical locations along major road corridors, and design and implementation of a 
program of footpath improvements.  
-
-
23
 
(c) 
Implementation of station area traffic improvement schemes (SATIS) to 
improve non-rail side transportation access to and from railway stations in the MCGM 
area, including: (i) minor works involving footways, pedestrian crossings and bus stands 
to reduce conflicts between pedestrian traffic and bus, taxi and other intermediate forms 
of transportation; (ii) reorganization of traffic management and circulation patterns, and 
parking arrangements, and minor road works; and (iii) regularization and/or relocation of 
street trading activities. 
 
(d) 
Implementation of traffic management measures and minor road works, 
developed under Part B.4 (a) of the Project, including programs for pedestrian facilities, 
parking control, station area traffic improvement schemes and remedial measures at 
accident blackspot junctions. 
 
2. 
Road Network Strengthening
(a) 
Improvement of the Jogeshwari – Vikhroli Link Road connecting the 
Eastern and Western Express Highways, including widening of the western section and 
other deficient sections of the dual carriageway, traffic management and minor alignment 
improvements in the eastern section, junction improvements along the road and 
intersection improvements at the Eastern and Western Express Highways. 
 
(b) 
Improvement of the Santacruz – Chembur Link Road connecting the 
Eastern and Western Express Highways, including construction of a ROB across the 
Central Railway tracks north of Kurla, approach roads and junction improvements on the 
Eastern and Western Express Highways.  
 
(c) 
Construction of Road Over Rail Bridges (ROBs) to eliminate the residual 
main road – rail level crossings at Jogeshwari North, Jogeshwari South and Vikhroli, 
including construction of ROBs, approach roads and junctions and, where required, 
provision of grade-separated rail-pedestrian crossing facilities. 
 
3. 
BEST
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services to assist BEST in the 
preparation, implementation and annual review and update of its 5-year business plan, 
including: (i) separation of bus division accounts from those of the electricity division, 
(ii) rationalization of staffing patterns, and (iii) contracting out of bus service delivery to 
the private sector, (iv) efficiency gains, and (v) progressive elimination of deficit 
(including provision for capital charges). 
 
(b) 
Acquisition of new buses required to enhance the bus fleet of BEST. 
 
4. 
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
-
-
24
 
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and material assistance to 
support the establishment of the TMU and develop its capacity to plan, design and 
implement traffic management and safety schemes and road works, facilitate the 
development and implementation of a traffic management plan and program, and 
promote better coordination between TMU and the traffic police.  
 
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory assistance and material assistance to 
support the creation of a road maintenance management system, including adoption of 
procedures to develop programs, identification of priorities and preparation of budgets to 
enable road maintenance to be undertaken in an efficient and targeted manner by MCGM. 
 
(c) 
Provision of technical advisory assistance and material assistance to 
update the Comprehensive Transportation Strategy for MMR, including: (i) updating of 
the database, upgrading of the existing model, and updating of the long-term strategy and 
medium term transportation plan for Mumbai; and (ii) creation of a planning, 
programming and budgeting system for transport investments and operations, and 
formulation of a five-year rolling program for all modes of transport. 
 
(d) 
Provision of technical advisory assistance and material assistance to 
strengthen the accident recording, analysis and reporting system of the traffic police, 
improve its linkage with TMU, and use data provided by the traffic police to develop and 
implement a multi-year blackspot improvement scheme. 
 
(e) 
Provision of technical advisory assistance and material assistance to 
enable MMRDA to develop and implement a public relations and communications 
strategy. 
 
(f) 
Provision of technical advisory assistance and material assistance to 
enable MMRDA to develop a strategy and produce an action plan designed to rely on 
user charges to achieve demand management in the Island City of Mumbai. 
 
(g) 
Provision of technical advisory assistance and material assistance to 
support the implementation of an air quality monitoring and vehicle emission control, 
including formulation of a vehicle inspection and maintenance program, and an overall 
motor vehicle emission control strategy.  
-
-
25
Part C: Resettlement and Rehabilitation Component
1. 
Procurement of housing units for the permanent resettlement of PAPs displaced 
under the Project.  
 
2. 
Construction of transit housing units to provide temporary accommodation for 
PAPs requiring to be resettled as a matter of urgency for reasons of public safety or in 
response to a decision of a court of law.  
 
3. 
Acquisition of land for both civil works and resettlement purposes. 
 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services for the preparation, implementation and 
monitoring of the resettlement and rehabilitation program, and training of staff and NGOs 
involved in the implementation of the program. 
 
5. 
Provision of compensation to PAPs for increased travel distance from new 
houses to the workplace, and for permanent loss of livelihood opportunities.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
-
-
26
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
 
March 15, 2008 
12,825,000 
September 15, 2008 
12,985,000 
March 15, 2009 
13,145,000 
September 15, 2009 
13,310,000 
March 15, 2010 
13,475,000 
September 15, 2010 
13,645,000 
March 15, 2011 
13,815,000 
September 15, 2011 
13,985,000 
March 15, 2012 
14,160,000 
September 15, 2012 
14,335,000 
March 15, 2013 
14,515,000 
September 15, 2013 
14,695,000 
March 15, 2014 
14,880,000 
September 15, 2014 
15,065,000 
March 15, 2015 
15,250,000 
September 15, 2015 
15,440,000 
March 15, 2016 
15,635,000 
September 15, 2016 
15,825,000 
March 15, 2017 
16,025,000 
September 15, 2017 
16,225,000 
March 15, 2018 
16,425,000 
September 15, 2018 
16,630,000 
March 15, 2019 
16,835,000 
September 15, 2019 
17,045,000 
March 15, 2020 
17,260,000 
September 15, 2020 
17,475,000 
March 15, 2021 
17,690,000 
September 15, 2021 
17,910,000 
March 15, 2022 
18,135,000 
September 15, 2022 
18,360,000 
 
_____________________________ 
* The figures in this column represent the amounts in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.
 
