CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7117-LE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Ba’albeck Water and Wastewater Project) 
 
between 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 26, 2002 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7117-LE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 2002, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Council for Development and 
Reconstruction (CDR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement 
(the Loan) available to CDR on a grant basis, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CDR (the 
Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I  
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“BHWI” means Ba’albeck Hermel Water and Irrigation Authority, a 
public authority established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 4419, dated 
December 10, 1987, as the same maybe amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
“CDR” means the Borrower’s Council for Development and 
Reconstruction, a public authority established and operating pursuant to the Legislative 
- 2 -
Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001, as the same 
may be amended from time to time; 
 
(c) 
“CWA” means the Chamsine Water Authority, a public authority 
established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 110, dated June 22, 1989, as the same 
maybe amended from time to time; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5); set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Environmental Assessment” means the environmental assessment, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower, dated 
January 15, 2002, including, inter alia: (i) the identification and assessment of potential 
environmental impact of activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of 
alternative measures; and (iii) the Environmental Management Plan (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) detailing the appropriate mitigation, monitoring, institutional and 
management measures required for the implementation of the Project with a view to 
ensuring compliance of the activities referred to in sub-paragraph (i) herein with said 
measures and to eliminating adverse environmental impacts, offsetting such impacts, or 
reducing them to acceptable levels; 
 
(g) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” mean the plan, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower, dated January 15, 2002 
and incorporated in the Environmental Assessment; 
 
(h) 
“Expropriation Decree” means the Decree to be issued by the Borrower, 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b)(i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, such Decree to set out a 
detailed list of plots to be expropriated, including plot numbers, names of plot owners and 
other right holders, plot areas and location to be expropriated;  
 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Land Acquisition Plan“ means the Borrower’s plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, submitted to the Bank in February 2002, which sets out the expropriation process 
under the Borrower’s laws and regulations and compensatory measures in connection 
with the carrying out of the Project, including the instrument for monitoring decisions of 
the expropriation commissions to be established under the Expropriation Decree; 
 
(k) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and CDR 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
- 3 -
(l) 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower, dated May 15, 2002, which sets out 
the principles and procedures governing the implementation of the Project, such plan to, 
inter alia: (i) define the respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies involved in 
the implementation of the Project; (ii) set forth the timetable of actions required to be 
carried out under the Project; (iii) identify the procedures to be used for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the achievement of the objectives of the Project; (iv) detail 
the financial management procedures for the Project, including, inter alia, the auditing, 
accounting and financial reporting arrangements for the Project; and (v) set out the details 
of  the Environmental Management Plan; 
 
(m) 
“Service Contract” means each service contract, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between CDR and a private sector entity for 
the purpose of operating and maintaining the water supply and distribution facilities and 
wastewater collection systems referred to under Part D of the Project; 
 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“TSU” means the Technical Support Unit to be established within 
BHWIA, CWA and ZWA under Part A of the Project with competent staff in adequate 
numbers whose terms of reference and qualifications shall be satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
 
(q) 
“ZWA”  means the Zahle Water Authority, a public authority established 
and operating pursuant to Decree No. 18023, dated December 9, 1957, as the same 
maybe amended from time to time. 
 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CDR. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty three 
million five hundred thirty thousand United States dollars (US$43,530,000), as such 
- 4 -
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of interest 
and other charges in respect of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 5 -
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:  
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause CDR to perform, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of CDR therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CDR to perform such obligations, 
- 6 -
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to CDR on 
a grant basis under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CDR, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods, works and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CDR pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that any land or right of way 
required for construction or civil works under the Project is acquired pursuant to the laws 
and regulations of the Borrower; (ii) ensure that the carrying out of the Project shall not 
involve the involuntary resettlement of local population; and (iii) supervise the 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
- 7 -
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
CDR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CDR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated 
April 3, 2001 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of CDR to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
- 8 -
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CDR or for the suspension of its 
operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and CDR. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CDR, 
and is legally binding upon CDR in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CDR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CDR in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Beirut, Lebanese Republic 
 
Facsimile: 
 
961 1 642 762 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 10 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Jamal A. R. Itani 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
- 11 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
85%  
 
(i)  under Part B 
11,160,000 
 
of the Project 
 
(ii)  under Part C 
14,175,000 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods, including equipment  
418,000 
100% of foreign 
 
and vehicles 
expenditures, 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Service Contracts Fees 
 
under Part D of the Project 
7,067,000 
95% of local 
 
expenditures for  
 
services of  
 
consultants domiciled 
 
within the territory of 
 
the Borrower and 
 
92.5% of foreign 
 
expenditures for 
 
services of other 
 
consultants 
- 12 - 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(4) 
Consultants’ 
6,990,000 
95% of local 
 
services and training 
 
expenditures for  
 
services of 
 
consultants domiciled 
 
within the territory of 
 
the Borrower and 
 
92.5% of foreign  
 
expenditures  
 
for services  
 
of other consultants 
 
(5) 
Incremental Operating 
278, 000 
90% 
 
Costs 
 
(6) 
Front-end Fee 
435,300 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
Premia for interest rate caps 
0 
Amount due under  
 
and interest rate collars 
 
 Section 2.09 (c) 
 
of the Loan  
 
Agreement 
 
(8) 
Unallocated 
3,006,700
TOTAL 
43,530,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures under the 
Project incurred by the TSU in relation to maintenance of vehicles and equipment, fuel, 
utility charges, office supplies, communications, local transport costs, but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower. 
- 13 - 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
US$4,353,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after March 1, 2002; and (b) under Category (1)(ii) unless the Borrower shall 
have: (i) submitted to the Bank the Expropriation Decree in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) submitted to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, 
that land expropriation has been carried out in accordance with the Land Acquisition 
Plan. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works for contracts costing 
less than US$1,000,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
US$200,000 equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than US$100,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (e) training; (f) workshops; and 
(g) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) develop and strengthen the institutional 
capacity of BHWIA, ZWA and CWA; (ii) improve the access of customers of BHWIA to 
satisfactory water supply and wastewater services; (iii) involve the private sector in the 
operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater facilities; and (iv) rationalize the 
use of water through the introduction of water meters. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Institutional Development
Establishment of a technical support unit (TSU) within BHWIA, CWA and 
ZWA, with a view to strengthening existing water authorities in the Beka’a region and 
preparing their consolidation under one regional authority, including the integration of 
wastewater under their scope of authority, including: (i) strengthening the capacity of 
BHWIA, ZWA and CWA; (ii) the development of administrative, technical and financial 
management systems of BHWIA; and (iii) the designing of a training program to improve 
the respective capacity of BHWIA, ZWA and CWA in developing and implementing 
public-private partnerships in the water and wastewater sectors; all through the provision 
of technical assistance, training, equipment and vehicles. 
 
Part B: Enhancement of Service Coverage for Water Supply
Construction of water supply distribution mains of about 117 km and 16,000 
house connections in the Ba’albeck urban area and surrounding villages. 
 
Part C: Enhancement of Service Coverage for Wastewater Collection and Treatment
Carrying out a program of works and provision of equipment for the construction 
of a wastewater collection and treatment system for the city of Ba’albeck and four (4) 
surrounding villages (namely, Douris, Ain Borda, Iaat and Tel Abiad), including: (i) the 
construction of a sewerage network of about 160km; (ii) the extension of the effluent 
discharge pipe; and (iii) the upgrading of the wastewater treatment plant, including 
physical improvements to said plant, the establishment of a storage area for the sludge 
effluent and of tertiary treatment filters. 
 
- 15 - 
Part D: Operation and Maintenance
Improving operation and maintenance capacity and services of the water supply 
and distribution facilities and of the wastewater collection systems in the Ba’albeck and 
Nabi Chit areas through the entering by CDR into Service Contracts covering, 
respectively: (i) the water and sewerage networks and the water supply facilities; and 
(ii) the wastewater treatment plant, including the wastewater quality monitoring program. 
 
Part E: Project Management
Provision of support to CDR including: (i) the preparation and design of tender 
documents for the Project; (ii) the supervision of construction works and  implementation 
of Services Contracts; (iii) the updating of the masterplan and the preparation of 
development programs for water supply and wastewater services in the Beka’a Region; 
(iv) the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan; and (v) the hiring of a 
CDR project coordinator, all through the provision of technical assistance, training, 
carrying out of studies and organization of workshops. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
- 16 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Date Payment Due
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)
November 15, 2002 
0.00 
May 15, 2003 
0.00 
November 15, 2003 
0.00 
May 15, 2004 
0.00 
November 15, 2004 
0.00 
May 15, 2005 
0.00 
November 15, 2005 
0.00 
May 15, 2006 
0.00 
November 15, 2006 
0.00 
May 15, 2007 
0.00 
November 15, 2007 
0.00 
May 15, 2008 
0.00 
November 15, 2008 
0.00 
May 15, 2009 
0.00 
November 15, 2009 
8.33 
May 15, 2010 
8.33 
November 15, 2010 
8.33 
May 15, 2011 
8.33 
November 15, 2011 
8.33 
May 15, 2012 
8.33 
November 15, 2012 
8.33 
May 15, 2013 
8.33 
November 15, 2013 
8.33 
May 15, 2014 
8.33 
November 15, 2014 
8.33 
May 15, 2015 
 
TOTAL 
8.37 
 
100% 
- 17 - 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
- 18 - 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 19 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to US$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of US$5,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
- 20 - 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
- 21 - 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 22 - 
Seble Berhanu 
M:\legmn\LEBANON\Ba’albeck Water\Draft Loan Agreement, April 4, 2002.doc 
May 
28, 
2002 
4:43 
PM
 
