CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7123-LE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Transport Development Project) 
 
between 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 26, 2002 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 7123-LE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 2002, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project will be carried out by the Council for 
Development and Reconstruction (CDR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the Loan, as provided for 
in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to CDR, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CDR (the 
Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CDR” means the Borrower’s Council for Development and 
Reconstruction, a public authority established and operating pursuant to the Legislative 
Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001 and as the 
same may be amended from time to time; 
 
- 2 -
(b) 
“DGLMT” means the Directorate General of Land and Maritime 
Transport of MPWT (defined hereinafter) in charge of carrying out the activities as 
referred to in Schedule 5 of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means, in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a) and (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in respect of the Special Account 
for Part D of the Project, Categories (2)(b) and (3)(b) set forth in said table; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means, in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible 
Categories; and in respect of the Special Account for Part D of the Project, the 
expenditures for services and goods referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to said Special 
Account’s respective Eligible Categories; 
 
(e) 
“Environment Management Plan” or “EMP” means the environmental 
management plan described in the Final Environmental Assessment dated May 2000 
prepared by the Borrower, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement 
of the Borrower and the Bank, such plan consisting of: (i) the mitigating, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project 
to offset and/or reduce the adverse environmental and social impacts to levels acceptable 
to the Bank; (ii) the mitigating and monitoring actions needed to implement these 
measures; and (iii) a special cultural heritage component; 
 
(f) 
“MPWT” means the Ministry of Public Works and Transport of the 
Borrower or any successor thereof; 
 
(g) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and CDR 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement and Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established and operating 
within CDR by virtue of CDR Bureau Decision No. 219/2000B dated June 9, 2000, in 
charge of the overall management and coordination of the Project activities; 
 
(j) 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan prepared by the Borrower 
and satisfactory to the Bank, dated July 14, 2000; 
 
- 3 -
(k) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee established by virtue of the 
Prime Minister’s Decision No. 42/2001 dated April 7, 2001, responsible for the oversight 
of the Project activities as referred to in Schedule 5 of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement; and 
 
(n) 
“TMO” means the Traffic Management Organization, an autonomous 
organization established by virtue of Decree No. 4082, dated October 14, 2000 to 
perform the functions of: (i) on-street parking regulation and management in coordination 
with the competent authorities; (ii) traffic surveillance, control and enforcement support; 
(iii) traffic operations planning; (iv) traffic engineering research; and (v) traveler 
information and public awareness. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixty five million 
United States dollars (US$65,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the Loan, the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
- 4 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on November 15 and May 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:  
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
- 5 -
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. For the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions: (a) CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a), and 
(4); and (b) MPWT is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (2)(b) and (3)(b). 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end: (a) shall carry out Part D of the Project, through DGLMT of the 
MPWT, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, financial, municipal and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project; 
 
(b) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CDR to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement, the EMP and the RAP, all the obligations of 
CDR therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CDR to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower shall make available to CDR as a grant the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated, from time to time, to Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a) and (4) under a 
Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CDR, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
- 6 -
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, C and E of the 
Project shall be carried out by CDR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
- 7 -
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, commencing February 15, 2003, a Project management report for 
the Project, for such period, which: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and 
 
- 8 -
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
CDR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CDR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated 
April 3, 2001 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of CDR to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CDR or for the suspension of its 
operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
- 9 -
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and CDR; 
 
(b) 
the PMU has been staffed, including the appointment of: (i) a traffic 
engineer; (ii) a parking specialist; (iii) a procurement and construction management 
specialist; and (iv) an accounting and financial management specialist, under contractual 
arrangements and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
TMO has entered into an on-street paid parking concession agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with the Municipality of Beirut; 
 
(d) 
the traffic diversion plans have been prepared by CDR for the 
construction of the first grade separation facility; 
 
(e) 
the Executive Decrees relating to the organization and staffing of the 
TMO has been enacted to enable TMO become operational; and 
 
(f) 
the TMO department directors for traffic engineering and for parking 
management, and the coordinating officer in charge of traffic surveillance and 
enforcement, have been appointed in accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CDR, 
and is legally binding upon CDR in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CDR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CDR in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
- 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Beirut, Lebanese Republic 
 
Facsimile: 
 
961 1 642 762 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Jamal A.R. Itani 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works under: 
 
70% 
 
(a)  Parts A and B 
1,750,000 
 
of the Project 
 
(b)  Part C 
25,076,000 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods under: 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100 % of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(a)  Parts A, B, C and E 
22,113,000 
 
of the Project 
 
(b)  Part D 
43,000 
 
of the Project 
- 13 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
100% 
 
and training under: 
 
 
 
(a)  Parts (A), (B), (C) 
5,354,000 
 
 
and (E) of the Project 
 
(b)  Part (D)of 
3,080,000 
 
the Project 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating  
117,000 
100% through 
 
Costs 
 
December 31, 2004 
 
and 75% thereafter  
 
(5) 
Fee 
650,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
0  
   Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
  
   Section 2.09(c) of 
 
Rate Collars 
  
   this Agreement 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
6,817,000 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
65,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by 
CDR, with respect to Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, in relation to operation and 
maintenance of office equipment, rent, utility charges, office supplies, fixed-line 
communications and office support staff. 
 
- 14 -
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of two million United States dollars (US$2,000,000), may be made in respect 
of Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
July 1, 2001; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1)(b) in respect of 
each grade separation facility under Part C of the Project, unless the Bank shall have 
received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the land acquisition process has been 
completed in compliance with the RAP in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than US$300,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
US$1,000,000 equivalent each; (c) services under consultant firms contracts costing less 
than US$100,000 equivalent each and under individual consultant contracts costing less 
than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training under contracts costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Special Accounts
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States dollars two separate 
special deposit accounts, the first (Special Account A) in respect of Categories (1), (2)(a), 
(3)(a) and (4) and the second (Special Account B) in respect of Categories 2(b) and 
(3)(b), in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has 
been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
- 15 -
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for any Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the said Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account. 
- 16 -
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 17 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  (i) in 
respect of Special Account A, an amount equivalent to five million United States dollars 
(US$5,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to two million United States dollars (US$2,000,000), until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of seven million United States dollars (US$7,000,000); and (ii) in respect of 
Special Account B, an amount equivalent to three hundred fifty thousand United States 
dollars (US$350,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to two hundred thousand United States dollars (US$200,000), until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts allocated to said 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of one million United States dollars (US$1,000,000). 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the said Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
- 18 -
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the said Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the said Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Categories, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the said Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to said Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
- 19 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the respective 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into a Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the said Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of eight million United States dollars 
(US$8,000,000) in respect of the Special Account A and five hundred thousand United 
States dollars (US$500,000) in respect of the Special Account B. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the urban transport infrastructure for 
the Greater Beirut Area. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Traffic Management Program:
1. 
Construction of a new building for the traffic management center and 
providing equipment, including communications equipment, control hardware and 
software and video display systems for the traffic management, office equipment and 
vehicles for the TMO. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the TMO for traffic management 
operations and use of Intelligent Transport System (ITS) technologies through the 
provision of consultant services and training. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of intersection layout improvement, street improvement 
works, signing and marking works, provision and installation of signals at about 200 
intersections, modifying of existing traffic signals at about 64 intersections and 
conducting public awareness campaigns through the provision of goods, works, 
consultant services and training. 
 
4. 
Installation of a pilot traffic monitoring video system using closed circuit 
television at about 30 sites along four corridors and the integration of about 35 existing 
cameras. 
 
5. 
Providing traffic police with traffic enforcement equipment, including 
about 10 small and 5 mid-size towing trucks, 125 motorcycles, 60 vehicles, 125 radio 
communication sets as well as safety devices and gears. 
 
6. 
Upgrading the skills of traffic police through the provision of consultant 
services and training. 
 
7. 
Preparing the design and carrying out the supervision of the Traffic 
Management Program through the provision of consultant services and training. 
 
- 21 -
Part B: Parking Improvement Program:
Implementation of a program designed to improve on-street parking and traffic 
flow, consisting of: 
 
1. 
Installation of about 580 pay and display multi-space parking meters, 
including signing and marking works, to control about 6,500 spaces under agreements 
between the TMO and the directorate general of roads and buildings of the MPWT on the 
classified roads and under concession agreements between the TMO and the Greater 
Beirut Area municipalities. 
 
2. 
Providing the TMO with vehicles, parking enforcement equipment 
(booting equipment), computers and software and office equipment. 
 
3. 
Building the capacity of the TMO for parking management operations 
and conducting public awareness campaigns through the provision of consultant services 
and training. 
 
4. 
Preparing the design and carrying out the supervision of the Parking 
Improvement Program through the provision of consultant services and training. 
 
Part C: Corridor Improvement Program:
1. 
Construction of grade separation facilities at highly congested 
intersections along seven main corridors identified according to the Greater Beirut Area 
transportation plan, namely corridors number 1, 4, 6, 18, 19, 20 and 22. 
 
2. 
Design and supervision of the civil works for the grade separation 
facilities through the provision of consultant services and training. 
 
Part D: Capacity Building of MPWT:
Carrying out a program aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Directorate 
General of Land and Maritime transport, within MPWT, to effectively manage the land 
transport sector, regulate and organize public transport services, including transport 
planning studies, studies to develop an air quality management program and an urban 
transport development strategy for the Greater Beirut Area and transport feasibility 
studies through the provision of consultant services, training and two vehicles. 
 
- 22 -
Part E: Project Management:
Operation of the PMU, including the provision of office equipment, consultant 
services, supervision of the RAP and the EMP implementation, training and incremental 
operating support. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
November 15, 2002 
0.00% 
May 15, 2003 
0.00% 
November 15, 2003 
0.00% 
May 15, 2004 
0.00% 
November 15, 2004 
0.00% 
May 15, 2005 
0.00% 
November 15, 2005 
0.00% 
May 15, 2006 
0.00% 
November 15, 2006 
0.00% 
May 15, 2007 
0.00% 
November 15, 2007 
0.00% 
May 15, 2008 
0.00% 
November 15, 2008 
0.00% 
May 15, 2009 
0.00% 
November 15, 2009 
8.33% 
May 15, 2010 
8.33% 
November 15, 2010 
8.33% 
May 15, 2011 
8.33% 
November 15, 2011 
8.33% 
May 15, 2012 
8.33% 
November 15, 2012 
8.33% 
May 15, 2013 
8.33% 
November 15, 2013 
8.33% 
May 15, 2014 
8.33% 
November 15, 2014 
8.33% 
May 15, 2015 
8.37% 
 
Total 
100%
- 24 -
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
- 25 -
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B: Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $70,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
2. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods under Part D of the Project, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
- 27 -
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for transport planning, transport regulation and 
environmental and feasibility studies, under Part D of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part D of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services under Part D of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
- 28 -
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain at all times the PMU with members whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, to assist 
CDR in the carrying out of the Project and to assist CDR and MPWT in the coordination 
of its implementation. 
 
2. 
Responsibility for the overall management and coordination of the Project 
activities shall be vested in the PMU, to be maintained within CDR and to include the 
following members: (a) a traffic engineer; (b) a highway/structural engineer; (c) a parking 
specialist; (d) a procurement/construction management specialist; and (e) an 
accountant/financial management specialist, all with qualifications, experience and terms 
of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and, except as the Borrower and Bank shall otherwise agree, shall 
not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan if, in the opinion of 
the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the DGLMT of MPWT to carry out Part D of the 
Project. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause the TMO, not later than July 31, 2003, to appoint two 
engineers for the traffic engineering and two engineers for the parking management at the 
TMO. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 2003, designate the traffic police team 
to carry out the traffic surveillance activities of the TMO. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall cause MPWT, not later than June 30, 2005, to prepare and 
furnish to the Bank: (i) an updated transportation plan for the Greater Beirut Area; and 
(ii) an Air Quality Management study. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall cause MPWT, not later than June 30, 2005, to draft an urban 
transport development strategy and obtain the approval thereof by the Cabinet of the 
Borrower by December 31, 2005. 
 
9. 
Responsibility for the oversight of the Project activities, general policy guidance, 
coordination and monitoring of the carrying out of the Project shall be vested in the 
Steering Committee, to be maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the 
Project and chaired by the Minister of Finance, with membership of: (a) the Minister of 
- 30 -
Public Works and Transport; (b) the Minister of Interior and Municipalities; and (c) the 
President of CDR. 
 
10. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall enable TMO to 
enter into long-term concession agreements with the Greater Beirut Area municipalities 
with exclusive rights to operate the on-street paid parking programs of the municipalities, 
under terms and conditions adequate to ensure the long term operational viability of the 
TMO. 
 
11. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31, 2005, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part D of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part D of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
12. 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a 
report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part D of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date. 
- 31 -
Seble Berhanu 
M:\legmn\LEBANON\BUTP\UTD-LA.doc 
May 
31, 
2002 
4:34 
PM
 
