CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4659 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Sustainable Forestry Development Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 2, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4659 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 2002, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union (EU) a grant in an 
amount equivalent to sixteen million nine hundred thousand Euros (�16,900,000) (the EU Grant) 
to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and the EU (the EU Grant Agreement); 
(C)
the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of Part B of the Project, the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with Resolution No. 94-02 of the 
Executive Directors dated May 24, 1994, establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and by an agreement 
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank acting as an implementing agency of 
the GEF (the GEF Grant Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to twelve million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR12,800,000) (the GEF Trust Fund Grant); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used herein:
(a)
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
(b)
“Community Conservation Activity” means a specific investment project 
identified in a Community Resource Management Plan to be carried out under Part B.2(a)(vi) of 
the Project.
(c)
“Community Conservation Grant” means a grant provided by a Project Province 
to individuals or groups of individuals in selected communities within or adjacent to a Project 
Nature Reserve to finance a Community Conservation Activity under Part B.2(a)(vi) of the 
Project.
(d)
“Community Resource Management Plans” means the plans prepared under Part 
B.2(a)(v) of the Project with respect to community co-management of Project Nature Reserve 
resources and “Community Resource Management Plan” means any of the Community Resource 
Management Plans.
(e)
“Environmental Protection Guidelines” means the guidelines for environmental 
protection for Part C of the Project, dated April 10, 2001, prepared by PMC, which sets out 
environmental protection measures as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of said measures, as such plan may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank.
(f)
“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” and the acronym “ESIA” mean 
the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment dated December 6, 2000, which reviews the 
Project’s likely positive and negative environmental and social impacts.
(g)
“EMDP” means the Ethnic Minority Development Plan dated April 10, 2001, 
prepared by PMC, which provides programmatic recommendations to mitigate possible negative 
impacts of the Project on ethnic minorities, as such plan may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank.
(h)
“Implementation Arrangement” means, in respect of each Project Province, the 
arrangement referred to in paragraph B.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement between the Borrower 
and said Project Province for the implementation of the Project within such Project Province.
(i)
“Loan Allocation” means, with respect to each Project Province, the portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan to be made available to said Project Province in accordance with 
Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement.
(j)
“Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made 
by a Project Province to a Rural Marketing Group out of the proceeds of the Loan for a 
Marketing Sub-project.
(k)
“Marketing Sub-project” means a specific investment project to be carried out by 
a Rural Marketing Group under Part C.4(c)(iii) of the Project for the development or expansion 
of marketing infrastructure for economic tree crops.
(l)
“Nature Reserve Management Plan” means a plan for the management of a 
Project Nature Reserve, required to be prepared and furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 
C.1(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(m)
“Office of Wildlife and Plant Protection” means the office established within the 
Forestry Department in each Project Province, with responsibility for nature reserve planning, 
community-based nature conservation and co-ordination of training activities.
(n)
“Pest Management Plan” means the Pest Management Plan for Part C of the 
Project, dated April 10, 2001, prepared by PMC, as such plan may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank.
(o)
“Policy Framework” means the Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land 
Acquisition for Parts A and C of the Project, dated April 10, 2001, prepared by PMC, setting 
forth the policies, planning principles and institutional arrangements designed to improve the 
living standards and productive capacity of persons affected by Parts A and C of the Project, as 
said Policy Framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(p)
“Process Framework” means the Process Framework for Mitigating Potentially 
Adverse Livelihood Impacts for Part B of the Project, dated April 10, 2001, prepared by PMC, 
setting forth criteria and procedures to be followed to ensure that eligible persons affected by 
Part B of the Project are assisted in their efforts to restore or improve their livelihoods in a 
manner which maintains the environmental sustainability of the relevant nature reserve, as said 
Process Framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(q)
“Project Counties” means those counties within the Project Provinces in which 
afforestation activities are to be carried out under Part C of the Project, and “Project County” 
means any of the Project Counties.
(r)
“Project Management Center” and the acronym “PMC” mean the project 
management center established within the SFA to be responsible for management and 
coordination of the implementation of Part C of the Project and required to be maintained in 
accordance with paragraph B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(s)
“Project Nature Reserves” means the following thirteen nature reserves in the 
Project Provinces: Jianfengling Nature Reserve in Hainan Province; Baiyang, Si’er, Piankou and 
Xiaozhaizigou Nature Reserves in Sichuan Province (the Minshan Cluster); Baishuijiang and 
Tangjiahe Nature Reserves in Gansu and Sichuan Provinces (the Motianling Cluster); 
Badagongshan, Hupingshan and Houhe Nature Reserves in Hubei and Hunan Provinces (the 
Wulingshan Cluster); Fanjingshan Nature Reserve in Guizhou Province; and Baimaxueshan and 
Nujiang Nature Reserves in Yunnan Province; and “Project Nature Reserve” means any of the 
Project Nature Reserves.
(t)
“Project Office” means the project management office established within SFA to 
be responsible for management and coordination of the implementation of Part B of the Project 
and required to be established pursuant to Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement.
(u)
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s provinces of Anhui, Gansu, Guizhou, 
Hainan, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Liaoning, Shandong, Shanxi, Sichuan and Yunnan, and 
“Project Province” means any of the Project Provinces.
(v)
“Rural Marketing Group” means an individual, group of individuals, household 
or enterprise possessing legal person status. 
(w)
“SFA” means the Borrower’s State Forestry Administration, and any successor 
thereto.
(x)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ninety three million nine hundred 
thousand Dollars ($93,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Part C of the Project (other than Part C4(c) of the Project) and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) amounts paid (or, if the administrator shall so agree, to be paid) on 
account of withdrawals made by Rural Marketing Groups under Marketing Infrastructure 
Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Marketing 
Infrastructure Sub-project in respect of which withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; 
and (iii) in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part C of the Project, open and maintain 
in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2009 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through SFA and the Project Provinces with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, forestry, environmental 
protection and management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available to each of the Project Provinces the 
portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the cost of goods, works and services 
required for its activities under Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the Loan, on the 
following terms and conditions:
(i)
repayment by the Project Province of its Loan Allocation over a period 
of 16 years, inclusive of a grace period of 7 years;
(ii)
payment by the Project Province of interest on the principal amount of 
its Loan Allocation withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the 
rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement; and
(iii)
payment by the Project Province of a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of its Loan Allocation not withdrawn from time to time 
at the rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to re-lend the proceeds 
of its Loan Allocation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph D.8 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Project Provinces shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Implementation Arrangement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that any Project 
Province will be able to perform its obligations under its respective Implementation 
Arrangement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, (A) after approval of the EU 
Grant by the EU Asia and Latin America Committee the EU Grant shall 
have been withdrawn without becoming effective, or (B) after 
effectiveness, the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
EU Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the EU Grant Agreement;
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such withdrawal, 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
(d)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the GEF Grant Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
(c)
The event specified in paragraph (c)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section.
Section 5.03.  Without limitation to Section 5.01 of this Agreement and Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, if either event specified in paragraph (c)(i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, the Borrower and the Bank shall, at the request of either party, exchange 
views on how best to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Implementation Arrangements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and each of the Project Provinces;
(b)
the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, 
except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
the EU Grant has been approved by the EU Asia and Latin America Committee 
and all steps necessary for the execution and delivery of the EU Grant Agreement, except only 
the execution of the EU Grant Agreement have been taken; and
(d)
the Project Office has employed competent staff in adequate numbers, with 
terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Implementation Arrangements have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and each of the Project Provinces, and each is legally binding upon the parties 
thereto in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the GEF Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
8610-6855-1125
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Beijing, 
People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR   
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) for plantations under Parts
C.1, 2 and 3 of the Project
     63,170,000
45%
(b) civil works under Part
        C.4 of the Project
3,980,000
45%
(2)
Goods and vehicles
17,760,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services, training
660,000
100% 
and study tours
(4)
Sub-loans under Part C.4(c)
1,100,000
67% of amounts
of the Project
disbursed
under Sub-loans
(5)
Fee
939,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
6,291,000
TOTAL
93,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from said region and expenditures in the currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region 
of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed “foreign 
expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $8,000,000 may be made in respect of 
Categories (1)(a) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
August 1, 2001; and (b) a Sub-loan under Category (4), until (i) the Borrower shall have 
provided to the Bank a report, satisfactory to the Bank, on proposed Project marketing 
arrangements and (ii) the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Paragraph D.10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works for plantations under Parts C1, 2 and 3 
of the Project; (b) works under Part C.4 of the Project, under contracts not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent each; (c) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent each; (d) 
consultants’ services provided by firms under contracts not exceeding $35,000 equivalent each; 
(e) consultants’ services provided by individuals under contracts not exceeding $35,000 
equivalent each; (f) Sub-loans; and (g) training and study tours, regardless of the cost thereof; in 
each case under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to promote development and 
management of the Borrower’s forest resources and to protect the natural environment through 
the development and adoption of viable, participatory and locally-managed systems for 
conservation, management and sustainable use of the Borrower’s forest resources and associated 
bio-diversity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Natural Forest Management
1.
Development, testing and introduction of natural forest management models in 
selected areas within the Project Provinces, through:
(a)
conducting resource assessments, establishing locally relevant forest zoning and 
classification criteria, developing forest resource inventory systems, developing a resource 
management database and carrying out forest re-zoning and re-classification based on updated 
field information;
(b)
conducting a review of and developing recommendations for revisions to the 
current legal and regulatory framework for timber and fuel wood production;
(c)
carrying out studies of the economic valuation of forest products and services, 
appropriate mechanisms to charge consumers for benefits derived from forests and market 
development and marketing of forest goods and services and the operation of market intelligence 
systems;
(d)
revising the SFA manual on forest management planning, compiling a 
participatory forest management plan based on a co-management process, detailed harvesting 
plans, diagnosis of status of secondary forest areas and land proposed for conversion and testing 
of detailed land use options, formalizing co-management arrangements and contracts among 
stakeholders, and implementing forest management plans; and
(e)
monitoring and evaluation of forest management plan implementation.
2.
Enabling local communities to improve livelihoods and develop sustainable 
forest management land-use practices through:
(a)
preparing village development plans including (i) a draft map showing 
boundaries of village groups, forest management units and existing and proposed village 
infrastructure; (ii) basic population and agricultural data; (iii) micro-credit options and training 
and infrastructure needs; and (iv) estimates of participating households for each activity to be 
funded through small household loans;
(b)
improvement of village infrastructure pursuant to village development plans 
through the identification and implementation of specific small-scale investment projects;
(c)
providing micro-credit to households and informal groups, including: (i) 
establishment of township micro-credit institutions and village micro-credit boards; (ii) 
development of guidelines for micro-credit application and approval based on technical 
appropriateness, technical capabilities and environmental impact; (iii) provision of small 
household loans to individual households or informal groups to finance productive activities such 
as animal production, cash crops and tree crops, small-scale processing, transportation and 
services;
(d)
providing training to households, including: (i) training in basic farming skills; 
(ii) training in activities funded with micro-credit, household cash flow management and forest 
management; and (iii) functional literacy courses in low literacy areas;
(e)
carrying out specific technical studies, including: (i) a study of rural energy, to 
assess fuel wood usage and trends of consumption, rural electricity usage and future prospects 
for energy savings; and (ii) a study of animal carrying capacity in selected areas; and
(f)
monitoring and evaluation of village development plan implementation.
3.
Carrying out of a program of training and information dissemination, including:
(a)
provision of training to forest administration staff in planning, organization, 
supervision and monitoring of natural forest management activities; and
(b)
dissemination to the public of the benefits from improved natural forest 
management through press releases and site visits to demonstrate natural forest management 
techniques.
4.
Carrying out of a program of training for laid-off workers of state-owned forest 
enterprises in order to facilitate alternative employment, including:
(a)
development of an overall training plan for state-owned forest enterprise 
employees in forest management and vocational training; and
(b)
implementation of the overall training plan, including: (i) contracting for 
delivery of training courses; (ii) supervision of training delivery; (iii) monitoring and evaluation 
of training performance; and (iv) assessment of training impact.
Part B:  Protected Areas Management
1.
Developing and implementing participatory approaches to nature reserve 
planning and management in the Project Provinces, including:
(a)
development of nature reserve management plans for each of the Project Nature 
Reserves, through enhancement of nature reserve feasibility studies;
(b)
preparation of baseline ecosystems maps for the Project Nature Reserves, 
including information on distribution and diversity of ecosystems, management zones, local road 
networks and village location;
(c)
carrying out a program of strengthening field-level management systems 
through: (i) participatory nature reserve boundary survey and demarcation; (ii) provision of 
equipment for field protection staff; (iii) provision of improved communications technology and 
equipment to facilitate nature reserve administration; and (iv) construction of small-scale 
infrastructure for Project Nature Reserves, such as guard posts;
(d)
developing proposals for and carrying out applied research in each Project 
Nature Reserve to promote effective nature reserve management; and
(e)
carrying out of bio-diversity surveys of selected areas of western Sichuan 
Province.
2.
Carrying out of a program to promote community-based nature conservation 
through:
(a)
development and implementation in selected villages of demonstration activities 
linking bio-diversity conservation with sustainable income generation through: (i) carrying out of 
a survey of community use of natural resources and critical threats, conflicts and community 
issues; (ii) establishing and training leading groups; (iii) selecting co-management demonstration 
sites; (iv) establishing a management forum within the community; (v) preparing community 
resource management plans; (vi) establishing and implementing a program to provide community 
conservation grants to finance specific investment projects to address needs identified in the 
respective community resource management plan; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation of the 
implementation of the demonstration activity;
(b)
development and implementation of a community conservation education and 
public awareness plan;
(c)
conducting an assessment of forest-based household fuel demand and 
demonstration of appropriate energy conservation technologies;
(d)
assessment of the nature and extent of damage to crops caused by wildlife and 
development and demonstration of appropriate wildlife management methods to mitigate 
negative wildlife impacts; and
(e)
identification and demonstration of income-generating alternatives to the use of 
forest resources, including the provision of training to communities and households in 
management of identified community or household economic activities. 
3.
Carrying out of a program of training to improve the capacity of Project Nature 
Reserve staff and Office of Wildlife and Plant Protection staff in the Project Provinces in routine 
nature reserve management skills, including:
(a)
provision of training to Project Nature Reserve staff in all aspects of nature 
reserve operation;
(b)
strengthening training capacity through the provision of training to trainers in the 
Project Provinces; and
(c)
strengthening nature reserve management through provision of training in 
management methods and developing appropriate organizational management structures within 
the Office of Wildlife and Plant Protection of the Forestry Department of each Project Province, 
responsible for nature reserve planning, community-based conservation and training 
coordination.
4.
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity for Project implementation through:
(a)
provision of training to Project implementation staff in project management, 
procedures, English language, clerical skills, computer use and maintenance, accounting and 
financial management and training program coordination;
(b)
carrying out of studies for: (i) development of a protected areas classification 
system including watershed protection forests and forest parks, (ii) evaluation and revision of 
specific regulations for nature reserve management zones, and (iii) development of a 
standardized methodology for evaluating effectiveness of nature reserve management; and
(c)
monitoring and evaluation of Project impacts on bio-diversity and on 
communities that have an impact on nature reserve resources and are impacted by the nature 
reserves. 
Part C:  Plantation Establishment
1.  
Establishment of approximately 115,090 hectares of commercial wood 
plantations for solid wood, construction timber, reconstituted panels and pulp in the Project 
Provinces. 
2.
Establishment of approximately 57,940 hectares of economic tree crops, 
including fruit, nut and medicinal trees and rattan in the Project Provinces.
3.
Carrying out of a program of thinning of approximately 61,330 hectares of 
existing plantations in the Project Provinces.
4.
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to provide technical support services 
through:
(a)
carrying out of a program to introduce improved genetic materials and nursery 
management technologies and to support the production of seedlings required under the Project;
(b)
carrying out of a training and extension program to disseminate key research 
findings and technical silvicultural guidelines to Project implementation staff and Project 
beneficiaries, including preparation of new training and extension materials, development and 
implementation of domestic training programs for Project implementation staff and Project 
beneficiaries and development and implementation of a program of overseas training and study 
tours for Project implementation staff;
(c)
improving rural infrastructure in the Project Provinces through: (i) construction 
of forest trails and small guard or storage sheds by local communities and construction of limited 
irrigation facilities; (ii) carrying out of a study of rural marketing infrastructure to identify 
priority investments to be financed through the provision of sub-loans; and (iii) financing, 
through the provision of sub-loans, of specific investment projects to develop and expand 
small-scale marketing infrastructure for post-harvest treatment and marketing of economic tree 
crop production; and
(d)
carrying out a program of monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2009.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
November 15, 2009
4,655,000
May 15, 2010
4,715,000
November 15, 2010
4,780,000
May 15, 2011
4,840,000
November 15, 2011
4,905,000
May 15, 2012
4,970,000
November 15, 2012
5,035,000
May 15, 2013
5,105,000
November 15, 2013
5,170,000
May 15, 2014
5,240,000
November 15, 2014
5,310,000
May 15, 2015
5,380,000
November 15, 2015
5,450,000
May 15, 2016
5,520,000
November 15, 2016
5,595,000
May 15, 2017
5,670,000
November 15, 2017
5,745,000
May 15, 2018
5,815,000
__________________
*The figures in this column represent the amount in US Dollars to be repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower).
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods, estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $8,400,000 equivalent, and works for small-scale irrigation wells estimated 
to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $9,570,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Works required for plantation establishment, consisting of land clearance, land 
preparation, planting of seedlings, thinning, tending and construction of small scale rural 
infrastructure such as forest trails and small guard or storage sheds, may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for new nursery establishment, small buildings and rural infrastructure, including 
rural marketing infrastructure under Sub-loans, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,330,000 equivalent, and works for 
small-scale irrigation estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,260,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more and the first two contracts to be procured by each Project Province for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured by each Project 
Province in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.2 of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $60,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
(i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, (ii) prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than December 31, 2002, for the Bank’s review and comment, a plan for the 
monitoring and evaluation of the carrying out of Part B of the Project, and (iii) thereafter 
implement said monitoring and evaluation plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, (i) with respect to Part B of the Project, on or about March 31 and September 30 in each 
year, commencing March 31, 2003, and (ii) with respect to Part C of the Project, on or about 
March 31 and September 30 in each year, commencing March 31, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the physical and financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the calendar semester preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank promptly thereafter, each report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter;
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about April 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the physical and 
financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(e)
review with the Bank promptly thereafter the report referred to in paragraph (d) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
B.
Project Management and Implementation
1.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain at all times during Project implementation the Project Office, with 
terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank and competent staff in adequate 
numbers; and
(b)
ensure that each Project Province shall maintain at all times during Project 
implementation a provincial project management office within its Office of Wildlife and Plant 
Protection and shall cause each Project Nature Reserve to maintain its project management 
group, in each case with terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank and competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
2.
For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain at all 
times during Project implementation project management offices at the national, provincial and 
county level, with terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank and competent staff 
in adequate numbers.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) enter into an Implementation Arrangement with each Project 
Province, obligating such Project Province to carry out its responsibilities with respect to the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and to take such additional actions 
applicable to it as are specified in this Schedule 5, in accordance with the provisions thereof; and 
(b) without limitation on any of its other obligations under this Agreement, (i) cause each Project 
Province to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Arrangement to 
which said Project Province is a party, all of the obligations of said Project Province therein set 
forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said Project Province to perform such 
obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance; and (c) exercise its rights under each Implementation Arrangement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan or GEF Trust Fund Grant, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive any Implementation Arrangement or any provision thereof.
C.
Protected Areas Management
Nature Reserve Management Plans
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the 
Bank for review and comment, a nature reserve management plan, incorporating a time bound 
implementation schedule, description of required civil works and environmental assessment, no 
later than (i) December 31, 2004 for Jinfengling Nature Reserve, Minshan Cluster and 
Motianling Cluster and (ii) December 31, 2005 for Wulingshan Cluster, Fanjingshan Nature 
Reserve and Nujiang Nature Reserve;
(b)
thereafter, carry out said Nature Reserve Management Plans taking into account 
the Bank’s comments thereon.
2.
No civil works under a Nature Reserve Management Plan shall be commenced unless 
and until such plan has been reviewed and approved by the Bank.
Community-Based Conservation
3.
The Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces to establish, in communities selected in 
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, a program for the provision of Community 
Conservation Grants in order to finance Community Conservation Activities identified in a 
Community Resource Management Plan for each such community, on terms which shall include 
the following:
(a)
Community Conservation Grants shall be used to finance alternative 
income-generating investments that reduce the need for communities to harvest protected flora 
and fauna in Project Nature Reserves;
(b)
Community Conservation Grants shall be approved by the Office of Wildlife and 
Plant Protection of the respective Project Province; and
(c)
each Community Conservation Grant shall be made under a contract between the 
beneficiary individual or group and the respective Project Nature Reserve administration, on the 
basis of a model contract acceptable to the Bank, which shall specify that goods and services 
required for the investment and to be financed out of the proceeds of said grant shall be procured 
in accordance with standard local commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall design and carry out demonstration activities under Part B.2(c) and 
(d) of the Project, relating to wildlife management systems and energy conservation, 
respectively, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, including problem analysis, 
proposed actions to be taken and demonstration activity budget.
5.
The Borrower shall cause each Project Nature Reserve to: (a) prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, prior to the commencement of community education 
activities under Part B.2(b) of the Project, a community conservation education program, 
including identification of its goals and objectives, determination of target audiences and 
characteristics, a description of the proposed education activities, justification for inclusion of 
activities in the program, the expected outputs and impacts of the program and a program budget; 
and (b) thereafter, carry out said program.
Institutional Strengthening
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) prior to the commencement of training activities under Part B.3 
of the Project, and in any event not later than June 30, 2003, prepare and furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment, a proposed program for the provision of in-service training to staff of 
the Project Nature Reserves; and (b) thereafter, carry out said program taking into account the 
Bank’s comments thereon.
7.
The Borrower shall carry out the policy studies under Part B.4(b) of the Project in 
accordance with terms of reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank and shall furnish each 
study to the Bank for its review and comment promptly upon completion thereof.
Process Framework and EMDP
8.
The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Process 
Framework and the EMDP and, without any limitation thereto, shall take timely action to ensure 
that any adverse social impacts of the Project are effectively mitigated in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Annual Work Plans
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 2002, furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment, a proposed annual work plan and budget for activities to be 
implemented in the following calendar year under Part B of the Project; and
(b)
thereafter, implement such annual work programs and budget taking into account 
the Bank’s comments thereon.
D.
Plantations Establishment
Afforestation
1.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all afforestation 
sites shall be established in accordance with afforestation models acceptable to the Bank; (b) all 
sites to be converted to plantation are outside of intact forest, will not significantly convert or 
degrade natural habitats or adversely affect cultural property, following an objectively 
monitorable process acceptable to the Bank; (c) all afforestation activities, including land tenure 
arrangements, production arrangements, and project implementation and cooperation 
arrangements involving afforestation entities, shall be carried out in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank; and (d) the project management office of each Project Province shall 
finalize all technical design plans for afforestation sites, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank not later than December 31, 2002, and shall thereafter carry out said afforestation 
activities in accordance with such plan.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all seedlings utilized in Part C of the Project shall 
conform to standards specified in the Planting Material Development Plan dated April 10, 2001 
prepared by PMC;  (b) all nurseries utilized in Part C of the Project shall operate in accordance 
with guidelines specified in the Nursery Management Guidelines dated April 10, 2001 prepared 
by PMC; and (c) the PMC shall, not later than December 31 in each year, commencing 
December 31, 2002, prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comment an evaluation 
report for such year and a work plan for the subsequent calendar year, in each case with respect 
to planting stock development and nursery management, and thereafter carry out said work plan 
in each year taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that forest trails and guard or storage sheds shall be 
constructed in accordance with technical design criteria acceptable to the Bank.
Institutional Strengthening
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that training and study tours under Part C of the Project 
shall be carried out in accordance with the Training and Extension Plan dated April 10, 2001 
prepared by PMC; and (b) not later than March 31 in each year, commencing March 31, 2003, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the progress achieved to the end of the previous 
calendar year in the implementation of said Training and Extension Plan.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Province shall compile, not later than 
December 31, 2002, and update annually thereafter, prices for each of the proposed economic 
tree crops to be established under Part C of the Project based on roadside prices in order to 
monitor price fluctuations.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Province shall conduct a market analysis 
and revised economic and financial internal rate of return calculations, satisfactory to the Bank, 
prior to any change in  a single species of economic tree crop to be planted under the Project over 
an area of 1000 hectares in such Project Province.
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) cause each Project Province to ensure that county level project 
management offices intending to apply for a Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan shall, not later 
than March 31, 2006, carry out a study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, on the 
specific marketing arrangements for economic tree crop production under Part C of the Project; 
and (b) not later than June 30, 2006, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment 
a summary of all such studies.
Onlending Arrangements
8.
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to ensure that the portion of the 
proceeds of its respective Loan Allocation used to finance goods and services for Project 
beneficiaries shall be made available to said beneficiaries on the following terms and conditions: 
(a) an amount so made available to a beneficiary shall be repaid by said beneficiary over the 
repayment period, inclusive of the grace period, as specified in Section 3.02(a)(i) of this 
Agreement; (b) interest shall be payable on the principal amount made available and withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at the rate specified in Section 3.02(a)(ii) of this Agreement; 
(c) a commitment charge shall be payable on the principal amount made available not withdrawn 
from time to time at the rate specified in Section 3.02(a)(iii) of this Agreement; and (d) an 
exchange risk fee, if any, not to exceed two percent per annum, shall be payable on the principal 
amount so made available in the currency of the Borrower, provided, however, that no such 
exchange risk fee shall be payable by household beneficiaries.
Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loans
9.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Provinces shall make Marketing 
Infrastructure Sub-loans in accordance with procedures, and on terms and conditions, acceptable 
to the Bank, which shall include the terms set forth in paragraph 10 of this Part.
10.
Each Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan:
(a)
shall be made exclusively for a Marketing Sub-project which: (i) is located 
within a Project County and is designed to market economic tree crop production under Part C of 
the Project; (ii)  has been identified as a priority investment in the county level marketing study 
to be prepared under Part C.4(c)(ii) of the Project and has been determined to be financially 
viable and technically feasible on the basis of a feasibility study conducted in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) is estimated to cost no more than $150,000 
equivalent; 
(b)
shall not exceed 75% of the total estimated cost of the Marketing Sub-project in 
respect of which said Sub-loan is to be made; 
(c)
shall be made to a Rural Marketing Group which shall: (i) have established to 
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the relevant Project Province, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, that such Rural Marketing Group is creditworthy and has the capacity to 
implement the Marketing Sub-project in respect of which said Sub-loan is to be made; and (ii) 
have committed to contribute, by way of equity, not less than 25% of the total estimated cost of 
the Marketing Sub-project in respect of which the Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan is to be 
made; and 
(d)
shall be made on terms whereby the Project Province shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Rural Marketing Group to which said Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan is to 
be made or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Borrower, the Bank and such Project Province, including the right to: (i) require the Rural 
Marketing Group to carry out and operate the Marketing Sub-project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (B) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Marketing Sub-project in respect of which the Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan is to be made; 
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, 
such goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in the Marketing Sub-project, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that the Rural 
Marketing Group shall take out and maintain such insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with sound business practice; (v) obtain all such information as 
the Bank or the Project Province shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Rural Marketing Group and to the 
benefits to be derived from the Marketing Sub-project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of 
the Rural Marketing Group to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Rural 
Marketing Group to perform its obligations under its contract with the Project Province.
11.
The Borrower shall cause each Project Province to exercise its rights in relation to each 
Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Bank and such Project Province and to achieve the purpose of the Marketing Sub-project in 
respect of which the Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan has been made.
Environment and Resettlement
12.
The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the measures 
described in the Environmental Protection Guidelines and the Pest Management Plan and, 
without any limitation thereto, shall take timely action to ensure that any adverse environmental 
impacts of the Project are effectively mitigated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
13.
The Borrower shall ensure that if, as a result of any works to be carried out under the 
Project, any persons would suffer the involuntary loss of shelter, productive assets, access to 
productive assets, income or means of livelihood, the relevant Project Province shall prepare or 
cause to be prepared a resettlement action plan for the compensation, rehabilitation and 
resettlement of persons affected by the Project in accordance with the policies, planning 
principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria set forth in the Policy Framework so as 
to improve the living standards and productive capacity of such persons.
Annual Work Plans
14. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 2002, furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comment, a proposed annual work program and budget for activities to be 
implemented in the following calendar year under Part C of the Project; and
(b)
thereafter, implement such annual work programs and budget taking into account 
the Bank’s comments thereon.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4);
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $4,500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part C of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $25,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part C of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
