CONFRMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7147 PH 
Loan Agreement 
 
Kapitbisig Laban sa Kahirapan-Comprehensive and Integrated 
Delivery of Social Services Project 
(Kalahi- CIDSS) Project 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 7, 2002 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7147 PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the additional terms wherever used in this Agreement have 
the following meanings:  
 
(a) 
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Borrower’s central bank and 
any successor thereto. 
 
(b) 
“Barangay” means an administrative unit within a city or municipality. 
 
(c) 
“Barangay Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of 
the proceeds of the Loan and out of its own funds to a Grantee or Grantees to finance the 
cost of a Barangay Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project; and “Barangay grants” 
means, collectively, all such Barangay Grants.   
 
- 2 -
(d) 
“Barangay Sub-project” means a specific community development 
project, carried out by a Grantee under Part A.1 of the Project and utilizing the proceeds 
of a Grant made available in accordance with a Barangay Sub-project Implementation 
Agreement; and “Barangay Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Barangay Sub-
projects.  
 
(e) 
“Barangay 
Sub-project 
Implementation 
Agreement” 
means 
the 
agreement to be entered into between the relevant Grantee or Grantees and DSWD, 
pursuant to paragraph 6(e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, for purposes of 
implementing the activities under a Barangay Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project. 
 
(f) 
“Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services” and 
“CIDSS” mean the Borrower’s on-going program of support to the poorest Barangays, 
established by Executive Order 443 of 1997,  for the carrying out of community-based 
projects. 
 
(g) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by:  
 
(i) 
the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of 
income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such 
person must move to another location; or  
 
(ii) 
the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks 
and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the 
livelihood of such person,  
 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
(h) 
“DSWD” means the Borrower’s Department of Social Welfare and 
Development, and any successor thereto. 
 
(i) 
“Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment 
Guidelines” 
means 
the 
Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines dated July 30, 2002, duly adopted by 
DSWD, which sets forth guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank,  to assess, mitigate, manage 
and monitor environmental impact of the Project. 
 
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(k) 
“Grantee” means a Barangay selected in accordance with the policies and 
procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, to receive financing out of the 
- 3 -
proceeds of the Loan to carry out its respective Barangay Sub-project under Part A.1 of 
the Project; and “Grantees” means, collectively, all such Grantees.  
(l) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and 
cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics: (i) a 
close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas;  
(ii) self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group; 
(iii) an indigenous language, often different from the national language; (iv) presence of 
customary social and political institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented 
production. 
 
(m) 
“Indigenous Peoples Strategy” means the Indigenous Peoples Strategy 
dated July 30, 2002, duly adopted by DSWD, which sets forth the guidelines, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to address any social or cultural impact on Indigenous Peoples caused by the 
execution of the Project, including screening and monitoring procedures and the 
development of Indigenous Peoples development plan or plans, where applicable. 
(n) 
“National Steering Committee” means the committee to be maintained 
by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(o) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means a manual, including sub-
manuals, which sets out, among other things: (i) criteria for the selection of Barangay 
Sub-projects and Grantees; (ii) procurement procedures (including the supplemental letter 
on procurement procedures of even date with this Agreement) and standard 
documentation as set forth in Schedule 4 and Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 of this 
Agreement, (iii) reporting requirements and financial management procedures, including 
audit procedures, as set forth in Article 4 of this Agreement, (iv) the Project Performance 
Indicators as set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and includes the Environmental 
Impact Assessment Guidelines, Resettlement Policy Framework and  Indigenous Peoples 
Strategy, and which manual is to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such manual may be revised from time to time with the 
prior approval of the Bank.  
 
(p) 
"Project Provinces" means the forty (40) provinces listed in the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which provinces are located in Regions IV through XIII 
Caraga and the  Cordillera Administrative Region, and such other provinces of the 
Borrower which may from time to time be designated as Project Provinces by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
(q) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework dated July 30, 2002, duly adopted by DSWD, which sets forth the principles 
and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank,  governing land or other asset acquisition from, 
- 4 -
resettlement and rehabilitation of and compensation to Displaced Persons, as well as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said principles and 
procedures. 
 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a 
Barangay Grant under Part A.1 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for a Barangay Sub-project and in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Loan Account is requested; (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
Parts A.2, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(iii) the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) any premium 
in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by 
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
- 5 -
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
- 6 -
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end shall carry out the Project, through DSWD, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, educational, 
engineering, financial, and management practices, and sound environmental and social 
standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of goods, 
works and services required for: (a) Part A.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Annex to Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; and (b) Parts A.2, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the purposes of the Project; and 
- 7 -
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect, separately, the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
- 8 -
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 7 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring 
Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:  
 
(a) 
The National Steering Committee referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement shall have finalized, according to procedures acceptable to the Bank, 
the selection of the first eleven (11) municipalities in the Project Provinces that will 
participate in the Project. 
 
(b) 
A special order shall have been issued by the Undersecretary, DSWD, 
setting out the responsibilities of the National Project Management Office referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) 
A special order shall have been issued by the Undersecretary, DSWD 
setting out the responsibilities of the Regional Project Management Office referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.   
 
(d) 
The Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been 
adopted by National Steering Committee in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.  
 
Section 5.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
- 10 - 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 
Roxas Boulevard 
 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN  
 
40268CB-CONF 
(63-2) 523-9216 
 
Manila 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
- 11 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By 
/s/ Jose Isidro Camacho 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Robert Vance Pulley 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 12 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
 The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed 
in Dollars)
% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  Barangay Grants 
90,600,000 
100% of Grant amount 
disbursed 
 
(2)  Goods under Parts B and C of     
the Project  
 
1,000,000 
100% of foreign             
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90% of 
local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally. 
 
(3) Consultants’ services  
4,000,000 
82% for individual 
consultants and 87% for 
consulting firms 
 
(4) Incremental Operating Costs 
 
2,200,000 
50% 
(5) Fee 
1,000,000 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
 
1,200,000 
 
(7) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
_________ 
Amount due under 
Section 2.09(c) of this 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
100,000,000
- 13 - 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures; and  
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable and 
documented expenditures incurred by DSWD for hiring of contractual personnel (but 
excluding staff salaries); travel; materials and supplies; and advocacy activities, for 
purposes of implementing the Project and which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000 
may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
June 1, 2002; and (b) a Grant under Category (1) unless a Barangay Sub-project 
Implementation Agreement has been entered into in accordance with paragraph 6(e) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Barangay Grants; (b) goods 
under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services 
under contracts with firms, each costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) consultants’ 
services under contracts with individuals, each costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and 
(e) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening local 
communities’ participation in community governance, and developing their capacity to 
design, implement and manage development activities that reduce poverty. 
 
The Project, which shall be carried out in the Project Provinces, consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may 
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
Barangay Grants
1. 
Carrying out community development sub-projects, including investment in 
economic and social infrastructure, environmental conservation measures and capacity 
building, through the provision of grants to Barangays.  
 
2. 
Carrying out audits of the records, accounts and financial statements of 
expenditures relating to the implementation of community development sub-projects. 
 
Part B
Implementation Support
1. 
Mobilizing local communities to participate in the Project through provision of 
technical assistance by facilitators and community organizations.  
 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of local communities and local government units to 
initiate, plan and implement, manage and supervise Barangay Sub-projects, through 
provision of technical assistance, training and workshops.  
Part C
Monitoring and Evaluation 
Strengthening the capacity of the National Project Management Office and local 
communities to monitor and evaluate implementation of the Project and Barangay Sub-
projects respectively through development of baseline data and a computerized 
management information system. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
- 15 - 
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2 
List of Project Provinces 
 
Ifugao 
Mt. Province 
Romblon 
Quezón 
Oriental Mindoro 
Marinduque 
Masbate 
Albay 
Camarines Norte 
Catanduanes 
Camarines Sur 
Sorsogon 
Iloilo 
Capiz 
Negros Occidental 
Guimaras 
Bohol 
Siquijor 
Cebu 
Negros Oriental 
Eastern Samar 
Northern Samar 
Samar 
Leyte 
Biliran 
Southern Leyte 
Zamboanga del Norte 
Zamboanga del Sur 
Lanao del Norte 
Misamis Occidental 
Bukidnon 
Misamis Oriental 
Davao 
Davao Oriental 
Sarangani 
South Cotabato 
North Cotabato 
Sultan Kudarat 
Agusan del Sur 
Agusan del Norte 
- 16 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2010 through 
 
October 15, 2021 
4.17% 
 
On April 15, 2022 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
- 17 - 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 18 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement under Parts A.2, B and C of the Project 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and which must be purchased from 
the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary 
nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines 
- 19 - 
 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction, Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines,  and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
- 20 - 
 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Least-cost Selection
Services for carrying annual audits under Part A.2 of the Project that are 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts B and C of the Project that are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts B and C of the Project of individual consultants for tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, which 
are estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,  shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
- 21 - 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
- 22 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the National Steering Committee: with functions, 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank; and managed and staffed with 
qualified and experienced personnel in adequate number, to provide overall policy 
direction and coordination for the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Technical Working Committee: with functions, 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank; and managed and staffed with 
qualified and experienced personnel in adequate number, to provide technical and inter-
agency oversight for the implementation of the Project. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain the National Project Management Office within 
DSWD: with functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank; and 
managed and staffed with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate number, to 
manage regional implementation of the Project and provide inter-regional coordination 
for such implementation. 
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Regional Project Management Office in each of 
the regions in which the Project Provinces are located: with functions, responsibilities 
and resources satisfactory to the Bank; and managed and staffed with qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate number, to provide technical guidance for and 
supervise and monitor the implementation of the Project. 
5. 
The Borrower, through the National Steering Committee: 
 
(a) 
shall adopt and, thereafter, apply in the implementation of the Project, 
the Project Implementation Manual, which sets out, among other things: (i) criteria for 
the selection of Barangay Sub-projects and Grantees; (ii) procurement procedures 
(including the supplemental letter on procurement procedures of even date with this 
Agreement) and standard documentation as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
(iii) reporting requirements and financial management procedures, including audit 
procedures, as set forth in Article 4 of this Agreement, and (iv) the Project Performance 
Indicators as set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and which manual also includes 
the Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines, Resettlement Policy Framework and  
Indigenous Peoples Strategy; and  
 
(b) 
shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Project 
Implementation Manual, without the prior approval of the Bank. 
- 23 - 
 
6. 
For purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall select Barangay Sub-
projects and make Barangay Grants to Grantees, all in accordance with the criteria and 
procedure and on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, 
including the following:  
Criteria
(a) 
A Barangay Sub-project may be selected only if it is a community 
development project that is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and 
socially and economically justified. 
 
(b) 
A Barangay Sub-project shall not include expenditures for any of the 
activities or items set out in the Annex to this Schedule. 
 
Procedure, Terms and Conditions
(c) 
A Barangay Grant to a Grantee may be approved only if a Memorandum 
of Agreement, with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, has been entered into 
between DSWD and the municipality in which the Grantee is located and said 
municipality has adopted the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
(d) 
A Barangay Grant to a Grantee may be approved only if such Grantee: 
 
(i) 
has prepared an environmental assessment and an environmental 
management plan on the basis of standards satisfactory to the 
Bank and in accordance with the principles set forth in the 
Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines, in the event that 
the environmental screening carried out in accordance with said 
principles concludes that such assessment and management plan 
are required;  
 
(ii) 
has prepared a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank, 
and in accordance with the principles set forth in the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, in the event the Barangay Sub-
project involves resettlement of Displaced Persons; and 
 
(iii) 
has carried out consultations with and a process of informed 
participation by Indigenous Peoples, in accordance with 
principles set forth in the Indigenous Peoples Strategy, in the 
event that the Barangay Sub-project impacts such people and to 
ensure that the design and implementation of the Barangay Sub-
project adequately addresses the needs and cultural preferences 
of such people. 
 
- 24 - 
(e) 
In respect of each Barangay Grant, the Borrower shall enter into a 
Barangay Sub-project Implementation Agreement with the relevant Grantee whereby the 
Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, including without limitation the rights to: 
(i) 
require the Grantee to carry out its Barangay Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, managerial, social and environmental 
standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records; 
(ii) 
require the Grantee to have in place prior to approval of a 
Barangay 
Grant 
and, 
thereafter 
maintain, 
a 
project 
implementation team, with responsibilities and resources 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and managed and 
staffed with qualified personnel in adequate number to manage 
the implementation of its Barangay Sub-project; 
(iii) 
require that the works to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Barangay Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Annex to this Schedule and shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Barangay Sub-project; 
(iv) 
require 
that 
the 
Grantee 
implement 
its 
environmental 
management plan, resettlement action plan and program of 
consultation with and informed participation by Indigenous 
Peoples, if applicable, in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Bank; 
(v) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank such 
goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in 
the Barangay Sub-project, the operation thereof and any relevant 
records and documents; 
(vi) 
require that the Grantee provide to the Borrower and the Bank all 
such information as the Borrower or the Bank may reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Grantee and to the 
benefits to be derived from its respective Barangay Sub-project; 
(vii) 
require the Grantee to: (A) establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
- 25 - 
Borrower and the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to its Barangay Sub-project; 
(B) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in clause (A) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; and (C) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, copies of 
the financial statements referred to in clause (A) above as so 
audited together with an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit by said auditors; and 
(viii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to the use of the 
proceeds of the Barangay Grant upon failure by such Grantee to 
perform its obligations under its Barangay Sub-project 
Implementation Agreement with the Borrower. 
7. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set out in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project (including implementation of environmental 
management plans, resettlement action plans and program of consultation with and 
informed participation by Indigenous Peoples referred to in paragraph 6(d) of this 
Schedule) and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) an annual report on or about February 15 of each year, commencing 
February 15, 2004, and (ii) a mid-term report on or about February 15, 2005, in each case 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
(including implementation of environmental management plans, resettlement action plans 
and program of consultation with and informed participation by Indigenous Peoples 
referred to in paragraph 6(d) of this Schedule) during the period preceding the date of 
each such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by February 15, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in clause (b)(ii) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
- 26 - 
Annex to Schedule 5 
Selection Criteria and Procurement Procedure for Barangay Sub-projects 
A. 
Selection Criteria for Barangay Sub-projects 
No Barangay Sub-project shall include expenditures for any of the following 
activity or items:  
 
(a) Weapons, chainsaws, explosives, pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, 
asbestos, and other potentially dangerous materials and equipment 
(b) Fishing boats (beyond the weight limit set by the Philippine Bureau of 
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources) and related equipment 
(c) Civil works in or that affect protected areas 
(d) Purchase of or compensation for land 
(e) Micro-credit and livelihood activities which involve on-lending of Project 
funds 
(f) Maintenance and operation of facilities that have been the subject of civil 
works financed by proceeds of the Loan 
(g) Activities that have alternative prior sources of committed funding 
(h) Recurrent Government expenditures, including salaries 
(i) Civil works for government administration or religious purposes  
(j) Political and religious activities (including rallies) and facilities and materials 
related to such activities 
(k) Activities that employ children below the age of 16 years 
(l) Activities that exploit an individual or individuals 
(m) International travel 
(n) Consumption items 
 
B. 
Procurement Procedures for Barangay Sub-projects under Part A.1 of the 
Project
Goods and works under Barangay Sub-projects shall be procured in accordance 
with community participation procedures acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
 
- 27 - 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Performance Indicators 
Baseline 
December 
2003 
December  2005 
Closing Date 
Final total count 
Source of Data 
COMMUNITY GRANTS 
 
Barangays with sub-
projects implemented at 
technical standards and 
within budget (>80% of 
target). 
N/A 
1524 
4122 
RPMO reports 
Barangay records 
DSWD monitoring 
reports 
Participatory evaluations 
Barangays with sub-
projects that meet basic 
financial reporting 
standards in FM&A 
manual (>80% of target) 
N/A 
1524 
4122 
RPMO reports 
Barangay records 
DSWD monitoring 
reports 
Timely flow of funds to 
sub-projects (>80% of 
target) 
N/A 
1524 
4122 
RPMO reports 
Barangay records 
DSWD monitoring 
reports 
Participatory evaluations 
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT 
 
Number of barangay 
facilitators recruited 
(80% of target) 
45 
381 
650 
RPMO reports 
NPMO reports 
Number of area 
coordination teams 
recruited (80% of target)  
9
78 
200 
RPMO reports 
NPMO reports 
Trainings of facilitators 
(>90% of target) 
41 
342 
585 
RPMO reports  
NPMO reports 
Trainings provided for 
LGU staff (>90% of 
target) 
11 
96 
191 
RPMO reports  
NPMO reports 
Training/technical 
support to barangay 
volunteers/ barangay 
development committees 
(>90% of target) 
 
0
7727 
15,456  
 
(@ 3 per barangay) 
RPMO reports  
NPMO reports 
DSWD monitoring 
reports 
Supervision reports 
- 28 - 
Performance Indicators 
Baseline 
December 
2003 
December  2005 
Closing Date 
Final total count 
Source of Data 
MONITORING AND EVALUATION 
 
Internal computerized 
MIS established and 
reporting conducted as 
scheduled by all levels 
Initiated in 
11 Regions 
& HQ 
Completed in 11 
regions and HQ 
Completed in 11 
regions & HQ 
NPMO reports 
External monitoring 
consultant engaged and 
functioning 
Initiated 
Operational in 11 
regions 
Operational in 11 
regions 
RPMO reports  
NPMO reports 
Civil society involved in 
monitoring 
Independent 
Independent 
Independent 
Media reports 
NGO monitoring 
RPMO 
Participatory beneficiary 
monitoring functioning 
in barangays (>80% of 
target) 
 
NA 
Agreement on 
the set of 
indicators for 
participatory 
assessment 
Beneficiary 
Assessment of all 
projects using own 
indicators 
Participatory evaluation 
reports 
RPMO reports  
NPMO reports 
Financial audits 
conducted in 10% of 
sub-project barangays 
(>90 of target) 
 
Annual targets of 
5% of sub-
project 
components 
COA project audits 
and/or independent 
audit  
COA audit reports 
Independent audit 
reports 
 
Grievance redress 
arrangements established 
Grievance 
framework 
prepared 
% of grievances 
resolved 
Resolution of all 
project-related  
grievances 
Complaints register at 
RPMO &  
NPMO 
EMPOWREMENT INDICATORS 
 
Barangays that have 
adopted KALAHI-
CIDSS participatory 
practices (<50% of target 
municipalities) 
N/A 
1288 
2576 
- Barangay Dev. Plan 
- Barangay records 
- Municipal Dev. Plans 
- independent monitoring 
Barangays with project 
planning and 
management teams 
established through 
barangay meetings 
(>90% of target) 
N/A 
2318 
4436 
- RPMO reports 
- Barangay records 
- Participatory evaluations 
Barangays with sub-
projects for which 
community contributions 
were provided as 
committed (>80% of 
target) 
N/A 
2060 
At least 4120 sub-
projects 
- RPMO reports 
- Supervision reports 
- DSWD monitoring 
reports 
- 29 - 
 
Performance Indicators 
Baseline 
December 
2003 
December  2005 
Closing Date 
Final total count 
Source of Data 
Barangays with sub-
projects with adequate 
funding arrangements for 
O&M (>80% of target). 
N/A 
2060 
At least 4120 sub-
projects 
- RPMO reports 
- Supervision reports 
- DSWD monitoring 
reports 
Barangay Development 
Plans integrated in the 
MDP (> 60% of target). 
N/A 
1545 
3091 
- IBF Reports 
- Municipal records  
GOVERNANCE INDICATORS 
 
LGUs (Municipalities) 
that comply with 
Memoranda of 
Agreement (>80% 
target) 
-
76 
152 
- Supervision reports 
- Evaluation reports 
- Media monitoring 
- Municipal records 
- RPMO reports 
Number of barangays 
assisted by LGUs with 
technical support for sub-
project planning and 
implementing (>80% 
target) 
-
1524 
4122 
- Supervision reports 
- Evaluation reports 
- Media monitoring 
- Municipal records 
RPMO 
LGUs that conduct 
monitoring of sub-
project planning and 
implementation  (>80% 
of target) 
-
76 
152 
Supervision reports 
Municipal records 
RPMO 
Project transparency 
requirements 
complied with in 
sub-project 
preparation, 
selection, and 
implementation 
(>80% of target) 
N/A 
1524 
4122 
Media monitoring 
RPMO 
Supervision reports 
 
- 30 - 
 
Performance Indicators 
Baseline 
December 
2003 
December  2005 
Closing Date 
Final total count 
Source of Data 
POVERTY REDUCTION 
 
Improved poverty 
indicators in project 
barangays compared to 
without-project 
barangays  
NA 
TBD 
TBD 
M & E based on cross-
sectoral analysis 
Improved quality of life 
indicators in project 
barangays compared to 
without-project 
barangays  
Data from 
poverty 
mapping 
TBD 
TBD 
Impact assessment based 
on longitudinal analysis 
Assumptions: 
•
Maximum: 20 Barangays per Inter-Barangay Forum (IBF), up to a total of 250 
IBF  
•
One Area Coordinator Team (3 persons, 1 general area coordinator, 1 
engineer, 1 financial TA) up to a total of ~250 
•
Maximum: 5 Barangay facilitators per area Coordinator Team, up to a total of 
~83 at maximum capacity 
•
Maximum: 5 Barangays per Bbarangay facilitator, up to a total of ~332 
Barangay facilitators at maximum capacity 
•
The figures are the minimum figures to achieve performance goals 
 
- 31 - 
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$4,000,000  until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$10,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall  
 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
- 32 - 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
- 33 - 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b), and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
