CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7119 PNG
Loan Agreement
(Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)
between
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated  August 12, 2002
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7119 PNG
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 2002, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF 
PAPUA 
NEW 
GUINEA 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Work Program” means the annual program of activities under the 
Project to be prepared by DOWT, pursuant to the provision of paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“Bridge Inventory and Bridge Management System” means the system for 
inventorying bridges on national and provincial roads and for management of these bridges, 
developed by Works Consultancy Services Limited of New Zealand in association with Beca 
Gure of Papua New Guinea dated July 1996, to be updated and improved under Part F.3 of the 
Project;
(c)
 “Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the involuntary taking 
of land and other assets under the Project resulting in a direct economic and social adverse 
impact, whether or not said Displaced Persons must physically relocate, had or would have their: 
(i) standard of living adversely affected, whether or not the Displaced Person must move to 
another location; (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or 
permanently, adversely affected; (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely 
affected; and “Displaced Person” means any of the Displaced Persons;
(d)
“DOWT” means the Department of Works and Transport of the Borrower and 
any successor thereto;
(e)
“Employer’s Project Manager” means the consulting firm selected and retained 
by DOWT on August 23, 2001, in accordance with the Quality-and Cost-based Selection 
Procurement method set forth in the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999, for purposes of assisting DOWT in implementing, coordinating, monitoring 
and supervising the Project, pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; or, any other 
consulting firm selected and retained in the future in  accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;
(f)
“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Management and Monitoring 
Plans” means the guidelines adopted by the Borrower on June 1, 2001, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for managing and monitoring environment and social impacts under the Project, and as such 
guidelines may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank;
(g)
“Environmental Unit” means the Borrower’s unit established in DOWT on July 
18, 2001, responsible for managing and monitoring environment and social practices for works 
carried out by DOWT, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Executing Agency Trust Account” means the Borrower’s account established 
pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Fiscal Year” and the acronym “FY” mean the twelve (12)-month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which period commences on January 1 
and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term “Fiscal Years” means, collectively, 
each of said Fiscal Year;
(j)
“Imprest Accounts” means the Participating Provinces’ accounts established 
pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, and “Imprest Account” means any of said Accounts;
(k)
“Kina” and the acronym “K” mean the currency of the Borrower;
(l)
“Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework” means the framework 
satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower’s National Executive Council on May 10, 
2002, and referred to in paragraph 7 (e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, which sets out the 
principles and procedures governing land acquisition from and compensation to Displaced 
Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said framework, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank;
(m)
 “Memorandum of Agreement” means the memorandum entered into between 
the Borrower and a Participating Province, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 8 of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, as such Memorandum may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; 
(n)
“Participating Provinces” means, collectively, the Borrower’s provinces of 
Central, East New Britain, Manus, Morobe, Oro and West New Britain; and “Participating 
Province” means singularly any one of the said Provinces;
(o)
“Provincial Annual Work Program” means each of the annual program of 
activities under Parts B and D of the Project prepared by each Participating Province for their 
Respective Part of the Project, and approved by DOWT pursuant to paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement;
(p)
“Provincial Employer’s Project Manager” means the Employer’s Project 
Manager’s staff assigned to the Participating Provinces of Central, East New Britain and Manus, 
Morobe, Oro, and West New Britain, to assist in the implementation, coordination, monitoring 
and supervision of their Respective Part of the Project pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;
(q)
“Provincial Executing Agency Trust Accounts” means the Participating 
Provinces’ account established pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, and “Provincial 
Executing Agency Trust Account” means any one of said Accounts; 
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(s)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, for each Project Province, the activities 
to be carried out under the Project within said Project Province;
(t)
“Road Asset Management System” means the DWOT system for planning 
maintenance of national and  provincial roads adopted in May 2001 and October 2001, 
respectively; and
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty million Dollars ($40,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end shall carry out: (i) Parts A, C, E, F.3 and F.4 of the Project through DOWT; (ii) 
Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project through its Department of Trade and Industry; and (iii) Parts B 
and D of the Project through the Participating Provinces, all with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with sound administrative, economic, engineering, financial and technical 
practices, and social and environmental standards and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works, goods, 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an Executing 
Agency Trust Account in Kina in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment, for purposes of channeling in a timely manner the Borrower’s funding for the costs 
of works, goods and services required for the carrying out of Parts A, C, E and F of the Project,  
not financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(b)
make an initial deposit into such account in the amount of K5,000,000; and
(c)
deposit into the Executing Agency Trust Account, not later than the last day of 
each calendar quarter, amounts sufficient to cover counterpart funding for estimated 
disbursements under Parts A, C, E and F of the Project for the succeeding three-month period.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through each Participating Province: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, a Provincial 
Executing Agency Trust Account in Kina in the name of the respective Participating Province, 
each in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, for purposes of 
channeling in a timely manner each Participating Provinces’ funding for the costs of works, 
goods and services required for the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project not financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(b)
make an initial deposit into each such account as follows: 
(i)
for the Central Province in the amount of K200,000; 
(ii)
for the East New Britain Province in the amount of K400,000;
(iii)
for the Manus Province in the amount of K140,000;
(iv)
for the Morobe Province in the amount of K270,000;
(v)
for the Oro Province in the amount of K140,000; and
(vi)
for the West New Britain Province in the amount of K200,000.
(c)
and, thereafter, deposit into each such Provincial Executing Agency Trust 
Account, not later than June 30 and December 31 of each calendar year, commencing on 
December 31, 2002, amounts sufficient to cover counterpart funding for estimated disbursements 
under the Respective Parts of the Project on account of the relevant Participating Province for the 
succeeding six-month period.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through each Participating Province: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, an Imprest Account 
in Kina in the name of the respective Participating Province, each in a commercial bank, 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, for purposes of channeling in a timely manner 
each Participating Provinces’ funding for the costs of works for routine maintenance of 
provincial roads procured under paragraph 4 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement required for the carrying out of the respective Part B.1 of the Project not financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(b)
make an initial deposit into each such account as follows: 
(i)
for the Central Province in the amount of K100,000; 
(ii)
for the East New Britain Province in the amount of K200,000;
(iii)
for the Manus Province in the amount of K60,000;
(iv)
for the Morobe Province in the amount of K130,000;
(v)
for the Oro Province in the amount of K60,000; and
(vi)
for the West New Britain Province in the amount of K100,000.
(c)
and, thereafter, deposit into each such Imprest Account, not later than June 30 
and December 31 of each calendar year, commencing on December 31, 2002, amounts sufficient 
to cover counterpart funding for estimated disbursements for the costs of works for routine 
maintenance of provincial roads procured under paragraph 4 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement required for the carrying out by the relevant Participating Province its 
respective part of Part B.1 of the Project for the succeeding six-month period.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower, including the Participating Provinces, responsible for carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
(A)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(B) 
have the internal control system for the management of the 
Borrower’s Project accounts established for the carrying out of 
the Project, including those for DOWT, Department of Trade and 
Industry, and each of the Participating Provinces, reviewed every 
six months by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, 
furnish to the Bank the report of such review by not later than 
two months after its completion, and thereafter take corrective 
actions, if required, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank; and
(C)
for purposes of sub-paragraphs (A) and (B) above, the Borrower 
shall, by December 31, 2002, employ an independent auditor, 
with qualifications and experience, terms of reference and terms 
and conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank, selected in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three (3) months after the end of each such year, commencing March 31, 
2003, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report, and 
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the Executing Agency Trust Account has been established in accordance with 
Section 3.03 (a) and (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
a Provincial Executing Agency Trust Account has been established in each 
Participating Province in accordance with Section 3.04 (a) and (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
an Imprest Account has been established in each Participating Province in 
accordance with Section 3.05 (a) and (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has entered into arrangements with the Employer’s Project 
Manager pursuant to paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower has adopted a financial management system for the Project within 
DOWT and each Participating Province, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
(f)
the Borrower has furnished  evidence of the actions taken, and  a time-bound 
action plan of the outstanding actions, if any, to be taken, all satisfactory to the Bank, to 
implement the recommendations of the Auditor-General’s Office special review of the internal 
control system for the operations of DOWT, dated July 26, 2001, in accordance with paragraph 4 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(g)
the Memorandum of Agreement between the Borrower and each Participating 
Province has been entered into in accordance with paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
the Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework has been duly adopted by 
the Borrower’s National Executive Council and is legally binding upon the Borrower and each 
Participating Province in accordance with their respective terms; 
(b)
the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Management and Monitoring 
Plans has been duly adopted by the Borrower on June 1, 2001, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and each Participating Province in accordance with their respective terms; and 
(c)
the Memorandum of Agreement between the Borrower and each Participating 
Province has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and each Participating Province 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and each Participating Province in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Department of Finance  
Vulupindi Haus 4th floor
P.O. Box 710
Waigani, 131 NCD
Papua New Guinea
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANCE
NE 22218
(675) 3288213
Boroko 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
By /s/ Graham Michaels
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works:
(a) under Part A.1
2,180,000
37%
     of the Project
(b) under Part A.2
11,660,000
70%
     of the Project
(c) under Part B.1
1,100,000
37%
     of the Project
(d) under Part B.2
2,380,000
70%
      of the Project
(e) under Part C.1
570,000
70%
     of the Project
(f) under Part C.2
3,370,000
70%
     of the Project
(g) under Part D.1
430,000
70%
      of the Project
(h) under Part D.2
2,910,000
70%
    of the Project
(2)
Goods under Parts C.3,
1,900,000
100% of foreign
E.1 and E.2
expenditures, 100% of
of the Project
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 65% 
of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
(3)
Training, workshops, 
100,000
 90% 
seminars and conferences
under Parts F.1 and
F.2 of the Project
(4)
Consultants’ 
services:
(a) under Part E.3
2,710,000
83% for foreign
   of the Project
firms and 75% for
local firms
(b) under Parts E.4,
2,850,000
100% for foreign
     F.3 and F.4 of
firms and 75% for 
     the Project
local firms
(c) for  training
970,000
70% for individuals
                under Parts F.1 and 
     F.2 of the Project
(d) under Part E.6 of 
500,000
100% for foreign
      the Project
firms, 75% for
local firms, and
70% for individuals
(e) for audits of Project accounts
170,000
100% for foreign
firms, 75% for
local firms, and
70% for individuals
(5)
Incremental operating costs 
410,000
80%
(6)
Fee
400,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
5,390,000
TOTAL
40,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures directly 
related to the Project, incurred by the Borrower (which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Project), including expenditures for the cost of per diem and local 
transportation costs of Project staff, but excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $900,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but on or after September 1, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing less than 
$300,000 equivalent per contract; (b) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) training, workshops, seminars and conferences; (d) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants valued at less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (f) incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in promoting an efficient, safe and 
reliable roads transport system in the Participating Provinces through: (a) the improvement of 
reliable roads transport system in the Participating Provinces through: (a) the improvement of 
selected road segments; (b) strengthening strategic planning and management of the road sector; 
and (c) strengthening the institutional arrangements for road maintenance, including private 
sector participation. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Maintenance and Restoration of National Roads
Carrying out of routine maintenance and restoration works on selected national road 
segments, including:
1.
annual routine maintenance on about 2,200 kilometers of national roads; and
2.
restoration of about 440 kilometers of national roads.
Part B: Maintenance and Restoration of Provincial Roads
Carrying out of routine maintenance and restoration works on selected provincial road 
segments, including:
1.
annual routine maintenance on about 900 kilometers of provincial roads; and
2.
restoration of about 200 kilometers of provincial roads.
Part C: Maintenance, Restoration and Replacement of National Bridges
Carrying out of routine maintenance, restoration and replacement works on selected 
national bridges, and provision of emergency bridges and bridge parts, including:
1.
maintenance and restoration of about 35 bridges;
2.
replacement of about 9 bridges; and
3.
acquisition of about 6 bailey-type bridges for emergency needs, bridge decking and 
bridge parts for maintenance of bridges.
Part D: Maintenance, Restoration and Replacement of Provincial Bridges
Carrying out of routine maintenance, restoration and replacement works on selected 
provincial bridges, including:
1.
maintenance and restoration of about 25 bridges; and
2.
replacement of about 6 bridges.
Part E: Implementation Support
1.
Provision of laboratory equipment and traffic counting equipment for DOWT and 
Provincial Works Manager Offices.
2.
Provision of environmental monitoring equipment to DOWT, and Provincial Works 
Manager Offices and Provincial Administrations in each Participating Province.
3.
Strengthening the Employer’s Project Manager in the carrying out of Project 
management, including the provision of technical assistance.
4.
Strengthening the capacity of DOWT in the carrying out of the design of roads to be 
restored and bridges to be replaced, and of Project supervision, including the provision of 
technical assistance. 
5.
Provision of accounting and auditing services including an internal control system for the 
management of DOWT and the Participating Provinces’ Project accounts. 
6.
Strengthening the financial management and operational capacity of DOWT, including 
preparation and implementation of a time-bound action plan to address the weaknesses identified 
in the special review of the Auditor-General’s Office, dated July 26, 2001,  including the 
provision of technical assistance.
Part F: Road Sector Support
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training on management, preparation of bids, 
costing, quality control, and site planning for small and medium-sized contractors involved in 
road maintenance.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the DOWT and provincial administration agencies in the 
carrying out of works for road maintenance, including the provision of technical assistance and 
training.
3.
Updating and improving the Bridge Inventory and Bridge Management System of 
national and provincial roads, including the provision of technical assistance to DOWT.
4.
Carrying out of the social and economic impact assessments of roads and bridges under 
4.
Carrying out of the social and economic impact assessments of roads and bridges under 
the Project, including the provision of technical assistance.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the  
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
15-Jan-2008
1.94%
15-Jul-2008
2.00%
15-Jan-2009
2.08%
15-Jul-2009
2.15%
15-Jan-2010
2.22%
15-Jul-2010
2.30%
15-Jan-2011
2.38%
15-Jul-2011
2.46%
15-Jan-2012
2.55%
15-Jul-2012
2.64%
15-Jan-2013
2.73%
15-Jul-2013
2.83%
15-Jan-2014
2.93%
15-Jul-2014
3.03%
15-Jan-2015
3.14%
15-Jul-2015
3.25%
15-Jan-2016
3.36%
15-Jul-2016
3.48%
15-Jan-2017
3.60%
15-Jul-2017
3.72%
15-Jan-2018
3.85%
15-Jul-2018
3.99%
15-Jan-2019
4.13%
15-Jul-2019
4.27%
15-Jan-2020
4.42%
15-Jul-2020
4.58%
15-Jan-2021
4.74%
15-Jul-2021
4.90%
15-Jan-2022
5.08%
15-July-2022
5.25%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (i) civil works for national and provincial roads 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each; (ii) civil 
works for bridge replacement shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 
equivalent or more each, and (iii) contracts for goods, including bailey-type bridges, shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil works for national and provincial works estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, and civil works for bridge replacement estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, all up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $29,300,000 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, all up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $29,300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under this 
paragraph 1, Part C, shall be those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 4 required to comply 
with the provisions of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods, excluding bailey-type bridges, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Force Account
Civil works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing 
$100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,100,000, 
equivalent may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance 
with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
4.
Community Participation
Civil works required for roads routine maintenance under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $8,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $6,100,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, under procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $54,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $5,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more;  (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more;  (iii) the 
first contract in each Participating Province for civil works for national and provincial roads and 
bridge maintenance works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent; the first contract for 
roads routine maintenance works in each Participating Province procured in accordance with 
paragraph 4 of Part C of this Section; and (v) the first contract for roads routine maintenance 
works in each Participating Province procured in accordance with paragraph 5 of Part C of this 
Section; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent and to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Part C of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
National Competitive Bidding
1.
General
The procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding under paragraph 1 of 
Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall be those set forth in Section II of 
the ”Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines), except as provided in the following paragraphs:
2.
Advertising
(a)
Invitations to bid may be issued by the Borrower’s Central Supply and Tenders 
Board.
(b)
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper and copies of said invitations shall be sent to the representatives of foreign 
countries (e.g. embassies) in Port Moresby.
3.
Award of Contracts
The Borrower’s Central Supply and Tenders Board shall issue notice of award of 
contracts using its own standard forms. 
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) retain, until completion of the Project, the services of the 
Employer’s Project Manager, under terms of references, and headed by a qualified and 
experienced manager, assigned with qualified staff in adequate numbers, including at least an 
accountant with  financial management skills, all satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) enter into 
arrangements with the Employer’s Project Manager, satisfactory to the Bank, to assign qualified 
and experienced staff in adequate numbers, to each Participating Province Department of Works 
and Transport’s Provincial Offices with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, an Environmental Unit 
within DOWT headed by a qualified and experienced manager and assigned with qualified staff 
in adequate numbers, including at least one qualified environmental specialist, and provided with 
such powers, responsibilities and funding as shall be required to coordinate and monitor 
environmental and social works related to DOWT in the carrying out of the Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a 
financial management system for the Project within DOWT and each Participating Province, 
acceptable to the Bank. 
4.
The Borrower shall prepare and adopt a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to implement any outstanding actions needed to be taken to implement the recommendations of 
the Auditor-General’s Office special review of the internal control system for the operations of 
DOWT, dated July 26, 2001, and, thereafter, implement such time-bound action plan in a manner 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall not amend, waive or abrogate the provisions of the Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessment Management and Monitoring Plans and of the Land Acquisition 
and Compensation Framework without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
Project Implementation
6.
(a)
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through DWOT, shall: (i) by June 30 
in each calendar year, commencing on June 30, 2003, until completion of the Project, furnish to 
the Bank, for its approval, the draft Annual Work Program for the immediately following year; 
(ii) by December 31 in each calendar year, commencing on December 31, 2003, adopt said 
Annual Work Program, as so approved; and (iii) thereafter, implement and cause each 
Participating Province to implement, as the case may be, said Annual Work Program in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank; provided, however, that the Annual Work Program for the calendar year 
January 1 to December 31, 2003, shall be prepared and furnished to the Bank for its approval by 
no later than December 15, 2002, and thereafter the Borrower shall adopt and implement and 
cause each Participating Province to implement, as the case may be, said Annual Work Program 
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
For purposes of developing the Annual Work Program for Parts B and D of the 
Project, the Borrower shall, by May 31 in each calendar year, commencing on May 31, 2003, and 
until completion of the Project, cause each Participating Province to furnish to the Borrower, 
their respective draft Provincial Annual Work Program for the immediately following year, for 
their inclusion in the draft Annual Work Program referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (i) of this 
paragraph; provided, however, that for the Annual Work Program for the calendar year January 1 
to December 31, 2003, the Borrower shall cause the Participating Provinces to furnish to the 
Borrower by no later than November 15, 2002, for their inclusion in the draft Annual Work 
Program referred to in the proviso in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 6 their respective draft 
Provincial Annual Work Program for the period January 1 to December 31, 2003.
7.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Annual Work Program shall be prepared in 
7.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Annual Work Program shall be prepared in 
accordance with the following criteria: 
(a)
civil works for roads and bridges are included in the Road Asset Management 
System and the Bridge Inventory and Bridge Management System, respectively, with updated 
data, as required, on the condition of the roads and bridges, traffic volumes on the roads and 
bridges and cost estimates; 
(b)
except for road routine maintenance works, the works for roads and bridges have 
an estimated economic rate of return of twelve percent (12%) or more, calculated in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank; works for national and provincial roads or segments of national and 
provincial roads are located in each of the Participating Province, and will be carried out within 
the existing rights-of-way. In the event that taking of land is required to implement such works, 
including the replacement of bridges, such taking shall not exceed 20% of the total land area of 
the Displaced Person, and the taking shall not entail the physical relocation of people nor  the 
destruction of houses and structures thereon;
(c)
necessary counterpart funding from the Borrower and each Participating 
Province for their respective proposed works, goods and services is available in amounts 
acceptable to the Bank;
(d)
appropriate engineering, social and environmental practices and standards that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Displaced Persons 
and mitigate any environmental harm have been considered in the design of the proposed works 
in accordance with the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Management and 
Monitoring Plans;
(e)
the provisions of the Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework have been 
complied with, and, where the taking of land or assets  is unavoidable under proposed works, a 
land acquisition and compensation action plan acceptable to the Bank has been prepared in 
accordance with the Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework and in consultation with 
Displaced Persons and compensation has been made available to the Displaced Persons in 
accordance with the Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework, and prior to the signing of 
the contract for the carrying out of said works; and
(f)
an environmental impact assessment has been completed and recommended 
measures adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Impact 
Assessment Management and Monitoring Plans.
8.
For purposes of the carrying out of Parts B and D of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with each of the Participating 
Provinces, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the following: 
(i)
that the Participating Provinces shall carry out the activities under Parts 
B and D of the Project in accordance with the Environmental and Social 
B and D of the Project in accordance with the Environmental and Social 
Impact Assessment Management and Monitoring Plans;
(ii)
that the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts 
B and D of the Project are provided promptly; 
(iii)
that the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services required 
for Parts B and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
(iv)
that the goods and services under Parts B and D of the Project financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan are exclusively used for the purposes of 
Parts B and D of the Project;
(v)
that the Borrower and the Bank are allowed to inspect, from time to 
time, the goods, works and services under Parts B and D of the Project, 
including all records and documents relating thereto;
(vi)
that the Borrower is promptly informed of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B and D of 
the Project and that appropriate corrective measures are taken;
(vii)
that, from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower or the Bank, 
the Participating Province shall exchange views with the Borrower and 
the Bank regarding progress achieved in carrying out Parts B and D of 
the Project; 
(viii)
that the Participating Province shall furnish to the Borrower and the 
Bank all such 
information and documents related to Parts B and D of the 
Project as may 
reasonably be requested and further agree to obtain such 
information and 
documents as may be required by the Borrower 
to fulfill its supervision, 
monitoring, recording and 
reporting obligations to the Bank; and
(ix)
that the Participating Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of Parts B and D of the  
Project of the departments or agencies 
of the Participating Province, responsible 
for the carrying out of 
Parts B and D of the Project or any part thereof; and take 
all such 
action as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, in particular those regarding auditing of 
Project accounts; and
(b)
exercise its rights under each Memorandum of Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any of the Memorandum of Agreement entered into between the Borrower and each 
Participating Province or any provision thereof.
9.
For purposes of carrying out Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project, respectively, the Borrower 
shall, by December 31, 2002, employ and retain in its Department of Trade and Industry, until 
completion of the Project: (a) the services of five qualified and experienced individual 
consultants to carry out Part F.1 of the Project; and (b) a qualified and experienced Training 
Support Manager to carry out Part F.2 of the Project; all with qualifications and experience, 
terms of reference and terms and conditions of employment, acceptable to the Bank, and selected 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the “Guidelines:  Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
10.
In carrying out Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 
2002, establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a Steering Committee 
headed by a qualified staff from the Borrower’s Department of Trade and Industry at First 
Assistant Secretary level, with representatives from the Borrower’s Department of National 
Planning and Monitoring, National Training Council, and DOWT, and provided with such 
powers, responsibilities and funding as shall be required to review and monitor training programs 
under Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project. 
11.
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank for its review and comments, by June 30, 2003, a draft Financial Instructions that 
shall supersede the Financial Instructions related to the Public Finances Management Act of 
1986 (PFMA-1986) and govern the implementation of the Borrower's Public Finances 
Management Act of 1995 (PFMA-1995) relating to the procurement of goods, works and 
services by the Borrower's public service, including a manual for the carrying out of procurement 
under the Borrower's departments and agencies, standard bidding documents, procedures for 
transparency in bidding and award of contracts, including the requirement to open bids in public 
and to notify the bidders as to contract award, a timely and effective bid protest procedure, and 
prohibition of negotiation with bidders on the bids.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
12.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, by March 31 of each calendar year, commencing March 31, 2004, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30 of each calendar year, commencing June 30, 
2004, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
13.
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2004, furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
comments, a report integrating the results of the activities under Part F.3 of the Project, including 
recommended actions to be taken to make said results sustainable in the future, and finalize such 
report taking into consideration the comments of the Bank. 
14.
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2005, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and comments a report integrating the results of the activities performed under Parts F.1 
and F.2 of the Project pursuant to paragraph 10 of this Schedule, including an action plan for the 
implementation of the recommendations of such report, and, thereafter, finalize such report 
taking into consideration the comments of the Bank.
15.
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2005, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and comments a report integrating the results of the activities performed under Part F.4 of 
the Project, and, thereafter, finalize such report taking into consideration the comments of the 
Bank. 
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators 
Project Objectives/Outputs
Performance 
Indicator
Indicator 
Type
B
as
eli
ne
200
2
Mediu
m 
Term 
2004
200
5
Comp
lete 
2006
Full 
Impac
t 2008
A
Restore satisfactory physical 
conditions and safety to parts of 
national and provincial roads 
based on priority needs.
1
2
Percentage of national 
roads in fair or better 
conditions.
Percentage of 
provincial roads in 
fair or better 
conditions.
Outcome
Outcome
20
10
21
12
25
14
40
16
50
18
60
20
B
Strengthen strategic sector 
planning and management of road  
assets.
1
2
Percentage of 
expenditures on 
maintenance and 
preservation.
Percentage of 
budgeted work 
program based on 
RAMS.
Impact
Impact
30
70
32
85
40
95
50
100
60
100
70
100
C
Strengthen institutional 
arrangements for road 
maintenance.
1
2
3
Timelines:  Number 
of providence who 
submit Annual Work 
Programs in each 
year.
Number of unified 
PWM/Provincial 
maintenance.
Number trained
Impact
Impact
Output
50
0
2
60
1
5
80
2
10
90
2
15
100
3
25
100
3
30
Project Objectives/Outputs
Performance 
Indicator
Indicator 
Type
B
as
eli
ne
200
2
Mediu
m 
Term 
2004
200
5
Comp
lete 
2006
Full 
Impac
t 2008
D
Increase private sector contracting 
of road maintenance works.
1
Percent of 
maintenance 
expenditure             
bid competitively in 
the Project provinces.
Impact
40
70
75
80
85
90
E
Physical Outputs.
1
2
3
Cumulative 
Kilometers of national 
roads receiving 
specific maintenance 
or restoration 
cumulative.
Kilometers of 
provincial roads 
receiving specific 
maintenance or 
restoration.
Cumulative number of 
bridges replaced.
Output
Output
Output
0
0
0
20
20
0
200
100
5
320
180
12
400
200
17
700
250
22
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories of the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions of the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
