CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7166-LE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Cultural Heritage and Urban Development Project) 
 
between 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 24, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7166-LE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 2003, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Council for Development and 
Reconstruction (CDR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement 
(the Loan) available to CDR on a grant basis, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CDR (the 
Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CDR” means the Borrower’s Council for Development and 
Reconstruction, a public authority established and operating pursuant to the Legislative 
Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001, as the same 
may be amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
“DGA” means the Directorate General of Antiquities within the MOC 
(as this term is hereafter defined) or any successor thereto; 
- 2 -
(c) 
“DGU” means the Directorate General of Urban Planning within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Transport; 
 
(d) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction to access legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in 
adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s environmental 
assessment, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank dated November 2002, 
including, inter alia: (i) the identification and assessment of potential environmental 
impact of activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of alternative 
measures; and (iii) the Environmental Management Plan (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) detailing the appropriate mitigation, monitoring, reporting, institutional, 
budgetary and management measures required for the implementation of the Project with 
a view to ensuring compliance of the activities referred to in sub-paragraph (i) herein 
with said measures and to eliminating adverse environmental impacts, offsetting such 
impacts, or reducing them to acceptable levels, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the prior agreement of the Bank; 
 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” mean the Borrower’s 
plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank dated November 2002 and 
incorporated in the Environmental Assessment; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02(b) of the Project Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“MOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Culture and/or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(i) 
“MOT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Tourism and/or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(j) 
“Project Management Unit” means the unit to be maintained by CDR in 
accordance with paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and CDR 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Project 
Implementation 
Plan” 
or 
“PIP” 
mean 
the 
Project 
Implementation Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the 
- 3 -
Borrower in January 2003, which, inter alia: (i) defines the respective roles and 
responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation of the Project; (ii) sets 
forth the timetable of actions required to be carried out under the Project; (iii) identifies 
the procedures to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and (iv) details the financial management 
procedures for the Project, including, inter alia, the auditing, accounting and financial 
reporting arrangements for the Project; 
 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s policy, adopted 
on January 30, 2003, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth certain rules, procedures and 
guidelines for: (i) the acquisition of land and/or other assets from Displaced Persons; 
(ii) resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons and the compensation thereof; 
and (iii) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said policy, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; 
 
(p) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means any resettlement action plan prepared 
by the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the 
Resettlement Policy Framework; and 
 
(q) 
“Sub-project” means a project to be carried out under Part A of the 
Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty one 
million five hundred thousand Dollars (US$31,500,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the Loan, 
- 4 -
the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in 
respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
- 5 -
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause CDR to perform, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of CDR therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CDR to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to CDR on 
a grant basis under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CDR, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
- 6 -
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods, works and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CDR pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
- 7 -
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
CDR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CDR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977, and Law No. 295 
dated April 3, 2001, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CDR to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CDR or for the suspension of its 
operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
- 8 -
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and CDR. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CDR, 
and is legally binding upon CDR in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CDR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CDR in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Beirut, Lebanese Republic 
 
Facsimile: 
 
961 1 642 762 
- 9 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beirut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
By 
/s/ Fuad Siniora 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Joseph P. Saba 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
 
 
% 
 
Loan Allocated  
 
 Expenditures 
Category
(expressed in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
22,055,000 
 
80% 
 
(2) 
Goods, including 
271,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
equipment and vehicles 
 
 
expenditures, 100% of 
 
local expenditures (ex- 
 
factory cost); and 85% 
 
of local expenditures for 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
5,197,000 
 
95% of local 
 
and training 
 
 
expenditures for 
 
services of consultants 
 
domiciled within the 
 
territory of the 
 
Borrower and 92.5% of 
 
foreign expenditures for 
 
services of other 
 
consultants 
 
(4) 
Incremental  
270,000 
 
100% until June 30 
 
Operating Costs 
 
 
2008;75% thereafter 
 
(5) 
Front-end Fee 
315,000 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of this 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
3,392,000
TOTAL 
31,500,000
- 11 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures under the 
Project incurred by CDR in relation to the maintenance of vehicles and equipment, fuel, 
utility charges, office supplies, office support, communications, local transport costs, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower and CDR. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$3,150,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
September 1, 2002. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works for contracts costing 
less than US$500,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
US$150,000 equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than US$100,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (e) training under contracts costing less 
than US$25,000 equivalent each; and (f) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) creating the 
conditions for increased local economic development and enhanced quality of life in the 
historic centers of the cities of Ba’albeck, Byblos, Saida, Tripoli and Tyre; and 
(b) improving the conservation and management of the country’s cultural heritage. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Rehabilitation of Historic City Centers and Urban Infrastructure
Carrying out a program of civil works and provision of technical assistance, 
goods and equipment, with a view to rehabilitating the historic centers and urban 
infrastructure of the cities of Ba’albeck, Byblos, Saida, Tripoli and Tyre, and promoting 
cultural sensitivity and cultural tourism, through: 
 
1. 
Upgrading and improving public spaces (such as streets, squares, commercial 
“souks” and residential areas) and infrastructure. 
 
2. 
Developing conservation and management of classified monuments and historic 
buildings and promoting the adaptive reuse of said monuments and buildings. 
 
3. 
Supporting and developing productive and commercial activities related to 
cultural heritage, and promoting communication with, and participation of, local 
populations. 
 
4. 
Rehabilitating the historic housing stock, including, inter alia, the construction 
and/or rehabilitation of housing units for temporary occupancy or resettlement purposes. 
 
5. 
Promoting and ensuring the enforcement of zoning regulations defining historic 
city centers, including the establishment of a rehabilitation and construction permit 
system. 
 
6. 
Improving access to historic centers, traffic management and parking availability 
and regulation. 
 
7. 
Protecting and enhancing landscaping of coastal and green areas. 
 
8. 
Carrying out technical and financial feasibility studies for urban redevelopment. 
- 13 -
Part B: Archeological Sites Conservation and Management
Carrying out a program, of civil works and provision of technical assistance, 
equipment and goods, with a view to developing and strengthening the conservation and 
management of archeological sites, including: 
 
1. 
Conducting a program of research, inventory and documentation to improve 
conservation and management of monuments and artifacts. 
 
2. 
Improving protection and conservation of exposed surfaces and structures. 
 
3. 
Improving landscaping, enhancing site protection and management and 
rehabilitating and/or expanding site museums. 
 
4. 
Improving and developing site presentation and visitor facilities, including the 
enhancement of visitor information capacities and the design of audio-visual programs 
and cultural circuits. 
 
5. 
Preparing a series of studies, comprising, inter alia: (a) an archeological mapping 
of the inland area of Tyre; (b) an update of the archeological studies of Byblos’ main site; 
(c) marine archeological studies of Tyre and Byblos; and (d) a study on the archeological 
sites of Saida. 
 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment, with a view to 
strengthening the legal, regulatory and institutional framework governing the 
management of historic sites and cities and to building capacity for Project management 
by: 
 
1. 
Strengthening the administrative and technical capacity of the municipalities of 
the cities of Ba’albeck, Byblos, Saida, Tripoli and Tyre by rehabilitating, developing, 
maintaining and managing their historic centers, including, inter alia: (a) the promotion 
of public-private partnerships; (b) the establishment of municipal inventories and real 
estate transaction registration system; (c) supporting the operation of the municipal 
implementation unit of each of, respectively, Ba’albeck, Tripoli and Tyre; and 
(d) assisting DGU in: (i) developing urban planning instruments, including the 
enforcement of zoning and building regulations for historic city centers, and 
(ii) reviewing the legal and regulatory framework governing the protection of historical 
urban areas. 
 
2. 
Reviewing the legal, regulatory and institutional framework governing cultural 
heritage, including the reform of the DGA, with a view to strengthening DGA’s capacity 
and improving management of cultural heritage. 
 
- 14 -
3. 
Strengthening DGA’s technical and regulatory functions, including, inter alia:
(a) the review of its financial, administrative and organizational framework; (b) the 
carrying out of capacity building activities for administrative and professional staff; 
(c) the upgrade of office technology and information management systems; and 
(d) assistance in conducting scientific oversight of the methodology used for conservation 
of archeological artifacts under the Project. 
 
4. 
Support to the Project Management Unit to strengthen its capabilities in 
implementing the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
October 15, 2003 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2004 
0.00% 
 
October 15, 2004 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2005 
0.00% 
October 15, 2005 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2006 
0.00% 
 
October 15, 2006 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2007 
0.00% 
 
October 15, 2007 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2008 
0.00% 
 
October 15, 2008 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2009 
0.00% 
 
October 15, 2009 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2010 
7.58% 
 
October 15, 2010 
7.58% 
 
April 15, 2011 
7.58% 
 
October 15, 2011 
7.58% 
 
April 15, 2012 
7.58% 
 
October 15, 2012 
7.58% 
 
April 15, 2013 
7.58% 
 
October 15, 2013 
7.58% 
 
April 15, 2014 
7.58% 
 
October 15, 2014 
7.58% 
 
April 15, 2015 
7.58% 
 
October 15, 2015 
7.58% 
 
April 15, 2016 
0.00% 
- 16 -
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
October 15, 2016 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2017 
0.00% 
 
October 15, 2017 
0.00% 
 
April 15, 2018 
4.52% 
 
October 15, 2018 
4.52% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
- 17 -
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to US$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of US$5,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
- 19 -
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
- 20 -
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
