CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4712-IND 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Java-Bali Power Sector Restructuring and Strengthening Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 1, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4712-IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
Part A of the Project will be carried out by PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara 
(PLN) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make part of the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) available to PLN, as set forth in this Agreement; and  
(C) 
Part B of the Project will be carried out by PT Perusahaan Gas Negara 
(PGN) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make part of the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) available to PGN, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and PGN (the 
PGN Project Agreement) and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and PLN (the PLN Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
Part A of the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and “Displaced Persons” means, 
collectively, all such Displaced Persons; 
(b) 
“Electricity Law” means the Borrower’s Act No. 20/2002 dated 
September 23, 2002; 
(c) 
“Electricity Market Supervisory Agency” means the agency to be 
established under the Borrower’s Electricity Law and having the independent authority 
and responsibility to regulate and supervise the electricity industry; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the PGN Project Agreement and Section 4.02 of the PLN 
Project Agreement; 
(e) 
“kV” means Kilovolt; 
(e) 
“MVA” means Megavolt Ampere; 
(f) 
“Oil and Gas Law” means the Borrower’s Act No. 22/2001 dated 
November 23, 2001; 
(g) 
“PGN Governing Laws” means the Borrower's Act No. 19 of 1960, Law 
No. 9 of 1969, Government Regulation No. 27 of 1984, and Government Regulation No. 
37 of 1994, and includes any other laws and regulations governing the organization, 
reorganization, restructuring and operations of PGN, as any of them may be amended or 
supplemented from time to time; 
(h) 
“PGN Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
PT Perusahaan Gas Negara, of even date herewith, for purposes of implementing Part B 
- 3 -
of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(i) 
“PGN Project Implementation Unit” means the unit established for 
purposes of Part B of the Project; 
(j) 
“PGN Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and PT Perusahaan Gas Negara pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the PGN Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(k) 
“PLN EMP” means the Environment Management Plan dated March 
2003, in respect of Part A of the Project, which sets out the environmental protection 
measures in respect of Part A of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said EMP, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;  
(l) 
“PLN Governing Laws” means the Borrower's Law No. 19 of 1960, Law 
No. 9 of 1969, Government Regulation No. 3 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 28 of 
1983, Government Regulation No. 10 of 1989, and Government Regulation No. 23 of 
1994, and includes any other laws and regulations governing the organization, 
reorganization, restructuring and operations of PLN, as any of them may be amended or 
supplemented from time to time; 
(m) 
“PLN Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement; 
(n) 
“PLN Project Implementation Unit” means the unit established by PLN 
President Director Decree No. 134.K/010/DIR/2002 of September 18, 2002, for purposes 
of coordinating the implementation of Part A of the Project; 
(o) 
“PLN Project Java-Bali Unit” means the unit established by PLN 
President Director Decree No. 297.K/024/DIR/2000 of December 12, 2000, responsible 
for monitoring the implementation of Part A of the Project, and any successor thereto;  
(p) 
“PLN LARPF” means the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework dated March 2003, in respect of Part A of the Project, describing procedural 
and institutional aspects pertaining to land acquisition and the resettlement, rehabilitation 
and compensation of Displaced Persons under the Project, as such Framework may be 
amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank; 
- 4 -
(q) 
“PLN Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara pursuant to Section 3.01(c) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the PLN Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(r) 
“Project Provinces” means the provinces of Bali, Banten, Central Java, 
D. I. Yogyakarta, DKI Jakarta, East Java, and West Java; 
(s) 
“PT Indonesia Power” means Perseroan Terbatas Indonesia Power, a
limited liability company and subsidiary generating company of PLN, established and 
existing under the laws and regulations of the Borrower, and with the head-office in the 
city of Jakarta; 
(t) 
“PT PJB” means Perseroan Terbatas Pembangkitan Jawa-Bali, a limited 
liability company and subsidiary generating company of PLN, established and existing 
under the laws and regulations of the Borrower, and with the head-office in the city of 
Surabaya; 
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to PGN and PLN. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred forty one million Dollars ($141,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a 
- 5 -
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
- 6 -
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall: (i) cause PGN to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the PGN Project Agreement all the obligations of PGN therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PGN to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance; and (ii) cause PLN to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the PLN Project Agreement all the obligations of PLN therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, and the adjustments of the structure or level of PLN’s rates, 
- 7 -
necessary or appropriate to enable PLN to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Loan, in Dollars, to 
PGN under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
PGN, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, which 
shall include the following terms and conditions: 
 
(i) 
PGN shall pay interest on the principal amount of the PGN 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a variable rate per annum equal to the sum of the following: the 
interest rate calculated in accordance with Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, plus one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; 
 
(ii) 
PGN shall pay to the Borrower a front-end fee on the principal 
amount of the PGN Subsidiary Loan at the rate specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
PGN shall pay to the Borrower a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from 
time to time at the rate specified in Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(iv) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over 
20 years including five years’ grace. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Loan, in Dollars,  
to PLN under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
PLN, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, which 
shall include the following terms and conditions: 
 
(i) 
PLN shall pay interest on the principal amount of the PLN 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a variable rate per annum equal to the sum of the following: the 
interest rate calculated in accordance with Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, plus one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; 
 
(ii) 
PLN shall pay to the Borrower a front-end fee on the principal 
amount of the PLN Subsidiary Loan at the rate specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
PLN shall pay to the Borrower a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from 
time to time at the rate specified in Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and 
- 8 -
(iv) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over 
20 years including five years’ grace. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the PGN Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the PLN Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the PGN Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the PLN Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree (i) procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the PLN 
Project Agreement, and (ii) procurement of the consultants’ services required for Part B 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the PGN Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall 
be carried out by PLN pursuant to Section 2.03 of the PLN Project Agreement and in 
respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by PGN pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the PGN Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 2006, establish, and, 
thereafter maintain, an automatic power tariff adjustment mechanism, acceptable to the 
Bank, and applicable to regulated tariffs.  
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 2005, exchange views with the 
Bank on the Borrower’s broad policy framework relating to the energy sector.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
- 9 -
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section, and those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
PGN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the PGN 
Project Agreement. 
 
- 10 -
(b) 
PLN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the PLN 
Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that PGN will be able to perform its obligations under the PGN Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that PLN will be able to perform its obligations under the PLN Project Agreement. 
 
(e) 
The PGN Governing Laws shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PGN 
to perform any of its obligations under the PGN Project Agreement. 
 
(f) 
The PLN Governing Laws shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PLN 
to perform any of its obligations under the PLN Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the events specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the PGN Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and PGN;  
(b) 
that the PLN Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and PLN; 
- 11 -
(c) 
that PLN has created new accounting codes, acceptable to the Bank, for 
purposes of generating Financial Monitoring Reports under the Project; 
(d) 
that staff of PGN have completed accounting and Financial Monitoring 
Report training, acceptable to the Bank; 
(e) 
that staff of PLN have completed accounting and Financial Monitoring 
Report training, acceptable to the Bank; 
(f) 
that PLN has adopted procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for verification 
and authorization of payments under Part A of the Project; and 
(g) 
that PLN has issued instructions for Project implementation to be 
included in PLN’s annual audit activity plan.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the PGN Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
PGN, and is legally binding upon PGN in accordance with its terms;  
 
(b) 
that the PLN Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance with its terms;  
 
(c) 
that the PGN Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and PGN and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PGN in 
accordance with its terms;  
 
(d) 
that the PLN Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and PLN and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PLN in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(e) 
that the PLN Environmental Management Plan and the PLN Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework have each been adopted by PLN and are 
each legally binding upon PLN in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Indonesia. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 12 -
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Budget 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By 
/s/ Dr. Boediono 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Andrew Steer 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods under Part A 
102,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
of the Project, including 
 
expenditures and 100% 
 
installation 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
(2) 
Information technology 
20,000,000 
80% 
 
equipment under Part A 
 
of the Project, including 
 
installation 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
100% 
 
and training under: 
 
(a) Part A.4 (a) of 
2,000,000 
 
the Project 
 
(b) Part A.4 (b) of 
1,500,000 
 
the Project 
 
(c) Part B of the 
6,000,000 
 
Project 
 
 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
1,410,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
(5) 
Unallocated under 
8,090,000 
 
Part A of the Project 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
141,000,000 
 
========= 
- 15 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Category (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 21, 2003. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) under contracts for goods costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent each; and (ii) under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms costing less than $200,000 equivalent, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the provision 
of electricity and gas to consumers in the Borrower’s Project Provinces. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: PLN
1. 
500 kV Transmission System
(a) 
500kV substation expansion through: (i) the installation of an additional 
500MVA 500/150kV transformer, with associated circuit breakers, transformer bay and 
civil construction, at Mandirancan substation in the province of West Java; (ii) the 
installation of an additional 500MVA 500/150kV transformer, with associated circuit 
breakers, transformer bay and civil construction, at New Kediri substation in the province 
of East Java; (iii) the installation of two 500MVA 500/150kV transformers at Surabaya 
Selatan substation in the province of East Java; and (iv) the acquisition of two additional 
166MVA 500/150kV single phase transformers for substations in the provinces of 
Central Java and West Java. 
 
(b) 
Acquisition and installation of three SF6 500kV circuit breakers at the 
Bandung Selatan, Ungaran and Gandul substations in the provinces of DKI Jakarta, 
Central Java and West Java. 
2. 
150 kV Transmission System
(a) 
Uprating of sub-transmission lines through: (i) the uprating of the voltage 
from 70kV to 150kV of a 5 km sub-transmission line from Perak to Ujung in the province 
of East Java, including the provision of conductors, insulators, fittings and related 
accessories; (ii) the uprating of the capacity of a 126 km 150kV sub-transmission line 
from Bandung Selatan to Ciamis via Kamojang and Darajat in the province of West Java, 
including the provision of conductors, insulators, fittings and related accessories; and (iii) 
the installation of a double phi second circuit for the 20 km 150kV sub-transmission line 
for Wayang Windu incomer and connected to the Bandung-Selatan-Kamojang sub-
transmission line in the province of West Java, including the provision of conductors, 
insulators, fittings and related accessories. 
- 17 -
(b) 
150kV substation extensions through: (i) the acquisition and installation 
of 100MVA 150/70kV interbus transformers at substations in the Project Provinces, and 
(ii) the acquisition and installation of additional or replacement 30MVA and 60MVA  
150/20kV transformers and associated switchgear, transformer bay and civil construction, 
as required, in the Project Provinces. 
 
(c) 
Replacement of about 28 150kV circuit breakers on the 150kV sub-
transmission network in the Project Provinces. 
3. 
PLN Enterprise Resource Planning System
Implementation of PLN’s Enterprise Resource Planning System in PLN Pusat 
and three representative subsidiary business units, focusing on core financials, materials 
management, human resources management and asset management, including the 
provision of software licenses and related hardware. 
4. 
PLN Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Finalization of the corporate restructuring plan of PLN through the 
provision of technical assistance; implementation of the corporate restructuring plan; and 
strengthening of PLN’s core capacity for implementation of environmental and social 
management plans; including the provision of technical assistance therefor.   
 
(b) 
Preparation of the Upper Cisokan Pumped Storage Plant, consisting of 
the carrying out of a review of: (i) the existing design of slope stability at the Upper 
Cisokan reservoir, (ii) topographical and geological surveys, (iii) access road detail 
design, (iv) 500kV T/L study, (v) test grouting, (vi) environmental assessment, (vii) 
resettlement action plans, and (viii) cost estimates; including the provision of related 
technical assistance therefor.   
Part B: PGN
1. 
Preparation of a rationalized gas pricing policy, including the provision of 
technical assistance therefor. 
2. 
Unbundling and corporate restructuring of PGN (including the preparation of an 
information systems framework), preparation for an initial public offering for a share of 
PGN’s distribution activities, and preparation for the involvement of a strategic partner in 
PGN’s transmission operations; including the provision of related technical assistance 
therefor. 
- 18 -
3. 
Transformation of PGN’s business consistent with the Oil and Gas Law and the 
deregulated market environment, including the provision of technical assistance for 
capacity building and training. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
December 15, 2008 
 
4,125,000 
June 15, 2009 
 
4,160,000 
December 15, 2009 
 
4,200,000 
June 15, 2010 
 
4,235,000 
December 15, 2010 
 
4,270,000 
June 15, 2011 
 
4,310,000 
December 15, 2011 
 
4,350,000 
June 15, 2012 
 
4,385,000 
December 15, 2012 
 
4,425,000 
June 15, 2013 
 
4,465,000 
December 15, 2013 
 
4,505,000 
June 15, 2014 
 
4,545,000 
December 15, 2014 
 
4,585,000 
June 15, 2015 
 
4,625,000 
December 15, 2015 
 
4,665,000 
June 15, 2016 
 
4,705,000 
December 15, 2016 
 
4,750,000 
June 15, 2017 
 
4,790,000 
December 15, 2017 
 
4,835,000 
June 15, 2018 
 
4,875,000 
December 15, 2018 
 
4,920,000 
June 15, 2019 
 
4,965,000 
December 15, 2019 
 
5,005,000 
June 15, 2020 
 
5,050,000 
December 15, 2020 
 
5,095,000 
June 15, 2021 
 
5,140,000 
December 15, 2021 
 
5,185,000 
June 15, 2022 
 
5,230,000 
December 15, 2022 
 
5,280,000 
June 15, 2023 
 
5,325,000 
 
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $14,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of  $7,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $28,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the   Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 21 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the   
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the   Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 22 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the   Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
