CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7204-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Power Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
Dated December 8, 2003  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7204-PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEVELOPMENT 
BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Republic of the 
Philippines (the Guarantor), dated March 7, 2003, describing a program designed to 
promote rural power sector reforms and acceleration of universal access to power supply 
and services throughout the Republic of the Philippines (the Program) and declaring the 
Guarantor’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
(B) 
the Guarantor has requested that the Bank support the Program through a 
series of loans to the Guarantor, the Borrower, or other financial institutions to be agreed 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, over a period of approximately fourteen years, the 
proceeds of which loans are to be utilized in the implementation of the Program; 
(C) 
the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Project), which Project forms a part of the first phase of the Program, have requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the Project); 
(D) 
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the 
Guarantee Agreement; 
(E) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor (in such 
capacity, the Recipient) and the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) (the Bank-GEF Grant Agreement) and an agreement of even 
date herewith between the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF and the 
Borrower (the GEF Project Agreement), the Recipient has requested assistance from the 
resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Parts A.4 and C of the Project and, said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 2002-0005, which may include funds carried over from the second 
replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF has agreed to extend a grant (the Bank-GEF Grant) to 
- 2 -
the Recipient in an amount equivalent to nine million Dollars ($9,000,000) on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Bank-GEF Grant Agreement and GEF Project Agreement; 
and 
(F) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) acting as an implementing agency of 
the GEF (the UNDP-GEF Grant Agreement), the Recipient has requested assistance from 
the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Part B of the Project and, said request 
having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, the UNDP acting as an implementing agency of the GEF has agreed to 
extend a grant (the UNDP-GEF Grant) to the Recipient in an amount equivalent to one 
million Dollars ($1,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the UNDP-GEF 
Grant Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
- 3 -
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement: 
i. 
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Central Bank of the 
Republic of the Philippines, and any successor thereto. 
ii. 
“Bank-GEF Grant” means the grant provided for in the 
Bank-GEF Grant Agreement. 
iii. 
“Bank-GEF Grant Agreement” means the agreement of even 
date herewith entered into between the Guarantor and the Bank for the carrying out of 
Parts A.4 and C of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; 
and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Bank-GEF Grant 
Agreement. 
iv. 
“Barangay” means the lowest political subdivision of the 
Guarantor, which covers a defined geographical area and includes as members all the 
residents of its territory, and which may exercise powers as a political subdivision of the 
- 4 -
Republic of the Philippines and as a corporate entity representing its members, and 
“Barangays” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
v. 
“Beneficiary” means any Type A Beneficiary, Type B 
Beneficiary, Type C Beneficiary, or Type D Beneficiary, and “Beneficiaries” means, 
collectively, all Type A Beneficiaries, Type B Beneficiaries, Type C Beneficiaries, and 
Type D Beneficiaries. 
vi. 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and “Categories” means, collectively, the 
plural thereof.   
vii. 
“DBM” means the Guarantor’s Department of Budget and 
Management and any successor thereto. 
viii. 
“DBP Charter” means the charter of the Development Bank 
of the Philippines, dated December 3, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
ix. 
“DBP-GEF Memorandum of Agreement” means the 
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Guarantor for implementing Part C.1 of the Project, including all schedules, and 
supplemental agreements, as said memorandum may be amended from time to time with 
the prior agreement of the Bank. 
x. 
“DBP Memorandum of Agreement” means the agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement and Section 4.01(a) 
of the Guarantee Agreement, as said memorandum may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
xi. 
“DBP Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, which manual shall provide, inter alia, for: (i) environmental 
requirements for Subprojects; (ii) eligibility criteria for the carrying out of Subprojects; 
(iii) the procedures and criteria for appraisal and selection of Beneficiaries and 
Subprojects, including those set forth in paragraphs 1(iv)-(v) of Annex A to Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, paragraph 1(iv) of Annex B to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and 
paragraphs 1(iv)-(v) of Annex D to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iv) terms and 
conditions governing Subloans and Subloan Agreements, including those set forth in 
paragraphs 1(i)-(iii) and (vi) of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, paragraphs 
1(i)-(iii) and (v) of Annex B to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and paragraphs 1(i)-(iii) 
and (vi) of Annex D to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (v) procurement procedures for 
goods, works and services under Subprojects, including those set forth in paragraphs 
1(vi)(C)-(F) of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, paragraphs 1(vi)(C)-(F) of 
Annex B to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, paragraphs 1(vii)(C)-(F) of Annex D to 
- 5 -
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, Annex E to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; (vi) the procedures and criteria for appraisal and selection of 
Participating Financial Intermediaries, including those set forth in paragraphs 1(i) and 
(iv) of Annex C to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (vii) terms and conditions governing 
Subsidiary Loans and Subsidiary Loan Agreements, including those set forth in 
paragraphs 1(ii)-(iii) and (v) of Annex C to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (viii) financial 
management and disbursement arrangements; (ix) the DBP Project Implementation Plan; 
(x) the Environmental Policy Framework; (xi) the Policy Framework: Land Acquisition, 
Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project-Affected Persons; and (xii) the Project Policy 
Framework on Indigenous Peoples, as said manual may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
xii. 
“DBP Project Implementation Plan” means the time-bound 
action plan adopted by the Borrower on September 1, 2003, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the carrying out of Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the Project), as such plan may 
be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
xiii. 
“DBP Project Management Office” and the acronym “DBP-
PMO” mean the Project management office established by the Borrower in July 2002, 
and to be maintained pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
xiv. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the 
execution of the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, and “Displaced Persons” means, 
collectively, the plural thereof. 
xv. 
“DOE” means the Guarantor’s Department of Energy and 
any successor thereto. 
xvi. 
“DOF” means the Guarantor’s Department of Finance and 
any successor thereto. 
xvii. 
“Electric Cooperative” and the acronym “EC” mean a 
private-sector-owned corporation which is (i) organized pursuant to Chapter III of the 
NEA Charter, Guarantor’s Presidential Decree No. 269, or (ii) if formed or registered 
under the Philippine non-Agricultural Co-operative Act prior to the NEA Charter, 
Guarantor’s Presidential Decree No. 269, converted into an Electric Cooperative pursuant 
to Chapter III of the NEA Charter, for the purposes of supplying, and of promoting and 
encouraging the fullest use of, electric service on area coverage basis at the lowest cost 
consistent with sound economy and the prudent management of  the business of such 
- 6 -
corporation, and “Electric Cooperatives” and the acronym “ECs” mean, collectively, the 
plural thereof. 
xviii. 
“Electric Power Industry Reform Act” and the acronym 
“EPIRA” mean the Republic Act No. 9136, also known as the Electric Power Industry 
Reform Act of 2001. 
xix. 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
xx. 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for Part A of the Project 
(except Part A.4 of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
xxi. 
“Environmental Policy Framework” means the framework, 
satisfactory to the Bank, which was adopted by the Guarantor on June 30, 2003, and by 
the Borrower on June 19, 2003, describing the rules, guidelines and procedures to assess 
environmental impacts under Part A of the Project and defining measures to reduce, 
mitigate or offset adverse environmental impacts and enhance positive impacts of Part A 
of the Project, as such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
xxii. 
“EPIRA-IRR” 
means 
the 
Implementing 
Rules 
and 
Regulations of Republic Act No. 9136, promulgated by DOE on February 27, 2002, 
pursuant to Sections 37 and 77 of the EPIRA, to implement the provisions of the EPIRA. 
xxiii. 
“Financial 
Management 
Unit” 
means 
the 
financial 
management unit established by the Borrower in July 2002, and to be maintained 
pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
xxiv. 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” 
mean each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
xxv. 
“Fiscal Year” and the acronym “FY” mean the twelve (12)-
month period corresponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which period 
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term 
“Fiscal Years” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
xxvi. 
“GEF-Assisted Subproject” means a specific renewable 
energy technology project to be carried out by a GEF Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds 
of a GEF Subgrant, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Bank-GEF 
Grant Agreement, and “GEF-Assisted Subprojects” means, collectively, the plural 
thereof.  
- 7 -
xxvii. 
“GEF Beneficiary” means an individual, LGU, or other legal 
entity which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to the 
Bank-GEF Grant Agreement, to receive a GEF Sub-grant from DOE, out of the proceeds 
of the Bank-GEF Grant, for purposes of market development, sales, and installation of 
RET systems, and “GEF Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
xxviii. 
“GEF Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date 
herewith entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for the carrying out of Part C.1 
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said agreement. 
xxix. 
“GEF Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be 
made by the Guarantor to a GEF Beneficiary, out of the proceeds of the Bank-GEF 
Grant, through a GEF Sub-grant Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to finance the 
carrying out of a GEF-Assisted Subproject, in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
the GEF Operational Manual. 
xxx. 
“GEF Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Guarantor and a GEF Beneficiary for purposes of providing a 
GEF Sub-grant, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement 
of the Bank, and “GEF Sub-grant Agreements” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
xxxi. 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct 
social and cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the 
development process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following 
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources 
in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct 
cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different from Pilipino, the Guarantor’s 
national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political institutions; and 
(v) primarily subsistence-oriented production. 
xxxii. 
“Local Government Unit” and the acronym “LGU” mean a 
local government unit which is a political subdivision of the Republic of the Philippines 
at the provincial, city, municipal, or Barangay level, and “Local Government Units” and 
the acronym “LGUs” mean, collectively, the plural thereof. 
xxxiii. 
“NEA” means the National Electrification Administration, a 
government-owned and controlled corporation established under the NEA Charter, and 
any successor thereto. 
xxxiv. 
“NEA Charter” means the charter of the NEA, Guarantor’s 
Presidential Decree No. 269 of August 6, 1973, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
- 8 -
xxxv. 
“NEDA” means the Guarantor’s National Economic and 
Development Authority and any successor thereto. 
xxxvi. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization, including 
an NGO that provides credit (credit NGO), established and operating under the laws of 
the Guarantor. 
xxxvii. 
“Participating Financial Intermediary” and the acronym 
“PFI” mean a financial intermediary established, organized, and operating in accordance 
with the laws of the Guarantor, including a micro-finance institution, commercial bank, 
rural bank, thrift bank, credit cooperative, credit NGO, and leasing company, eligible to 
receive a Subsidiary Loan in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Annex C to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and “Participating Financial 
Intermediaries” and the acronym “PFIs” mean, collectively, the plural thereof. 
xxxviii. 
“Pesos” means the currency of the Republic of the 
Philippines. 
xxxix. 
“Policy Framework: Land Acquisition, Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Displaced Persons” means the framework, satisfactory to the Bank, 
which was adopted by the Guarantor on June 30, 2003, and by the Borrower on June 19, 
2003, providing procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) the involuntary taking of land 
and other assets from Displaced Persons, (ii) resettlement and rehabilitation of, and 
compensation to, Displaced Persons, and (iii) reporting and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure compliance with such framework, as such framework may be amended from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
xl. 
“Procurement Unit” means the procurement unit established 
by the Borrower on July 31, 2002, and to be maintained pursuant to paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
xli. 
“Project Policy Framework on Indigenous Peoples” means 
the framework, satisfactory to the Bank, which was adopted by the Guarantor on June 30, 
2003, and by the Borrower on June 19, 2003, providing procedures, rules, and guidelines 
for: (i) the informed involvement of Indigenous Peoples, through a process of informed 
consultation, in the design and implementation of Part A of the Project in locations in 
which such people reside or which they use for their livelihood, and (ii) designing and 
implementing measures to provide benefits which are socially and culturally acceptable 
to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse impacts, under Part A of the Project, as 
such framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Bank. 
xlii. 
“Project Supervisory Committee” and the acronym “PSC” 
mean the committee to be established and maintained in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement, to be responsible for the overall policy 
- 9 -
direction, guidance, and supervision of policy and institutional reforms under the 
Program. 
xliii. 
“Qualified Third Party” and the acronym “QTP” mean an 
alternative electric service provider authorized to serve remote and unviable areas 
pursuant to Section 59 of the EPIRA and Rule 14 of the EPIRA-IRR, and “Qualified 
Third Parties” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
xliv. 
“Renewable Energy Technologies” and the acronym “RET” 
mean an energy system using renewable energy resources including wind, hydro, 
biomass, and solar energy. 
xlv. 
“Report-Based Disbursement” means a withdrawal of funds 
from the Loan Account made on the basis of reports as referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, and “Report-Based Disbursements” means, collectively, the plural 
thereof. 
xlvi. 
“RESCO” 
means 
a rural 
energy 
service 
company 
established, organized, and operating under the laws of the Guarantor. 
xlvii. 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement. 
xlviii. 
“Subloan” means any Type A Subloan, Type B Subloan, 
Type C Subloan, or Type D Subloan, and “Subloans” means, collectively, the plural 
thereof. 
xlix. 
“Subloan Agreement” means any Type A Subloan 
Agreement, Type B Subloan Agreement, Type C Subloan Agreement, or Type D Subloan 
Agreement, and “Subloans” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
l. 
“Subproject” means any Type A Subproject, Type B 
Subproject, Type C Subproject, or Type D Subproject, and “Subprojects” means, 
collectively, the plural thereof. 
li. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be 
made by the Borrower to a Participating Financial Intermediary out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, under the provisions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to finance the provision of 
Type B Subloans, and “Subsidiary Loans” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lii. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Financial Intermediary for 
purposes of providing a Subsidiary Loan, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
1(v) of Annex C to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and “Subsidiary Loan Agreements” 
means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
- 10 -
liii. 
“Technical Working Group” means the group to be 
established and maintained by the Guarantor in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement, to serve as a secretariat to the Project Supervisory 
Committee and to be responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of the 
implementation of the Project. 
liv. 
“Type A Beneficiary” means a RESCO, QTP, NGO, 
cooperative other than an EC, or LGU, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this Agreement to receive a Type A Subloan for 
purposes of carrying out a Type A Subproject, and “Type A Beneficiaries” means, 
collectively, the plural thereof. 
lv. 
“Type A Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be 
made by the Borrower to a Type A Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance 
in part the carrying out of a Type A Subproject, all in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of a Type A Subloan Agreement, and “Type A Subloans” means, collectively, 
the plural thereof. 
lvi. 
“Type A Subloan Agreement” means an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and a Type A Beneficiary for purposes of financing in 
part the carrying out of a Type A Subproject through the provision of a Type A Subloan, 
and “Type A Subloan Agreements” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lvii. 
“Type A Subproject” means a small-scale energy generation 
and mini-grid rural electrification project, to be carried out by a Type A Beneficiary 
utilizing the proceeds of a Type A Subloan, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and “Type A Subprojects” 
means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lviii. 
“Type B Beneficiary” means an RET system purchaser 
(which may be an individual, household, group of households, enterprise, school, LGU, 
or community organization) or an RET system supplier, each of which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Annex B to Schedule 4 to this Agreement to 
receive a Type B Subloan for purposes of carrying out a Type B Subproject, and “Type B 
Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lix. 
“Type B Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be 
made by a Participating Financial Intermediary to a Type B Beneficiary out of the 
proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan to finance in part the carrying out of a Type B Subproject, 
all in accordance with the terms and conditions of a Type B Subloan Agreement, and 
“Type B Subloans” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lx. 
“Type B Subloan Agreement” means an agreement to be 
entered into between a Participating Financial Intermediary and a Type B Beneficiary for 
purposes of financing in part the carrying out of a Type B Subproject through the 
- 11 -
provision of a Type B Subloan, and “Type B Subloan Agreements” means, collectively, 
the plural thereof. 
lxi. 
“Type B Subproject” means a stand-alone renewable energy 
technology system rural electrification project, including the marketing, sale, purchase, 
and installation of RET systems, to be carried out by a Type B Beneficiary utilizing the 
proceeds of a Type B Subloan, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Annex B to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and “Type B Subprojects” means, collectively, 
the plural thereof.  
lxii. 
“Type C Beneficiary” means an Electric Cooperative which 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement to receive a Type C Subloan for purposes of carrying out a Type C 
Subproject, and “Type C Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lxiii. 
“Type C Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be 
made by the Borrower to a Type C Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance 
in part the carrying out of a Type C Subproject, all in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of a Type C Subloan Agreement, and “Type C Subloans” means, collectively, 
the plural thereof. 
lxiv. 
“Type C Subloan Agreement” means an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and a Type C Beneficiary for purposes of financing in 
part the carrying out of a Type C Subproject through the provision of a Type C Subloan, 
and “Type C Subloan Agreements” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lxv. 
“Type C Subproject” means a rural electrification project for 
(i) improving power supply system safety, reliability, efficiency and power service 
quality for existing customers, through rehabilitation and capacity upgrades of the 
existing supply system (including purchase of secondhand subtransmission facilities), 
(ii) removing supply system constraints, (iii) encouraging institutional development of 
Electric Cooperatives, and (iv) providing the necessary hardware, software, motor 
vehicles, tools, and equipment to improve employee productivity, safety, and efficiency 
of customer service provision, to be carried out by a Type C Beneficiary utilizing the 
proceeds of a Type C Subloan, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Annex A to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and “Type C Subprojects” means, collectively, 
the plural thereof. 
lxvi. 
“Type D Beneficiary” means a beneficiary which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Annex D to Schedule 4 to this Agreement to 
receive a Type D Subloan for purposes of carrying out a Type D Subproject, and “Type 
D Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lxvii. 
“Type D Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be 
made by the Borrower to a Type D Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan to finance 
- 12 -
in part the carrying out of a Type D Subproject, all in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of a Type D Subloan Agreement, and “Type D Subloans” means, collectively, 
the plural thereof. 
lxviii. 
“Type D Subloan Agreement” means an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and a Type D Beneficiary for purposes of financing in 
part the carrying out of a Type D Subproject through the provision of a Type D Subloan, 
and “Type D Subloan Agreements” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
lxix. 
“Type D Subproject” means a rural electrification project 
other than a Type A Subproject, Type B Subproject, or Type C Subproject, that meets the 
eligibility criteria set out in the DBP Operational Manual, to be carried out by a Type D 
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Type D Subloan, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Annex D to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and “Type D 
Subprojects” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
- 13 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one billion, one 
hundred eighty-eight million, two hundred thousand Yen (JPY1,188,200,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
1. 
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall 
so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a Type A 
Subloan, Type C Subloan, or Type D Subloan made, 
respectively, under Parts A.1, A.3, and A.5 of the Project to meet 
the reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the 
respective Type A Subproject, Type C Subproject, or Type D 
Subproject, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested; 
2. 
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall 
so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a Subsidiary 
Loan made under Part A.2 of the Project to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, and services required for one or more Type 
B Subprojects and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested; and 
3. 
expenditures in respect of the front-
end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project (except Part 
A.4 of the Project), open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and 
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up to 
- 14 -
the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
- 15 -
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion,” as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
Section 2.10. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
- 16 -
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A (except Part A.4 of the Project) and C.1 of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, economic, administrative, management, banking, and engineering practices, 
and sound environmental and social standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
carrying out of Parts A (except Part A.4 of the Project) and C.1 of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:  
(i) 
carry out Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the Project) in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(ii) 
carry out Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF 
Project Agreement; 
(iii) 
make Type A Subloans and Type C Subloans under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include those set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
(iv) 
make Type D Subloans under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, which shall include those set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Annex D to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(v) 
onlend to each PFI an amount out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1), under a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
each PFI under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall include those set forth in the DBP Operational 
Manual and in paragraph 1 of Annex C to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, and the following principal onlending terms and 
conditions: 
- 17 -
(A) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be: 
(i) equivalent to the aggregate amount of the principal of 
all Type B Subloans made out of the proceeds thereof by 
the PFI; and (ii) onlent in Pesos and repaid by the PFI in 
Pesos in an amount equivalent at the time of withdrawal 
to the amounts withdrawn from time to time from the 
Loan Account under Category (1) in respect of such 
Subsidiary Loan;  
(B) 
interest on the principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding of a Subsidiary Loan made in Pesos shall be 
payable at a per annum rate of interest established in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the DBP 
Operational Manual; 
(C) 
commitment charges shall be payable on the amount so 
on-lent but not yet withdrawn from time to time at the 
rate payable by the Borrower under Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement; and 
(D) 
the principal amount of such Subsidiary Loan shall be 
repaid in accordance with an amortization schedule 
which corresponds to the composite of the amortization 
schedules of such Type B Subloans. 
(c) 
For purposes of: (i) the fees to be paid by the Borrower to the Guarantor 
in respect of the loan guarantee and foreign exchange risk cover provided by the 
Guarantor pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement, and (ii) the method for the 
determination of lending rates, including a floor lending rate, acceptable to the Bank, for 
onlending of the proceeds of the Loan through Type A Subloans, Type C Subloans, Type 
D Subloans, and Subsidiary Loans, the Borrower shall enter into a DBP Memorandum of 
Agreement with the Guarantor, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.  
(d) 
The Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights under the DBP Memorandum 
of Agreement in such manner as to: (A) protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Guarantor, and the Bank; (B) comply with its respective obligations under the DBP 
Memorandum of Agreement; and (C) accomplish the purposes of the Project; and 
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend 
or waive the DBP Memorandum of Agreement or any provision thereof without the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of the goods, 
works, and services required for Subprojects under Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 
of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of Subloans shall be governed by 
- 18 -
the provisions of paragraphs 1(vi)(C)-(F) of Annex A to Schedule 4 (for Type A 
Beneficiaries and Type C Beneficiaries), paragraphs 1(v)(C)-(F) of Annex B to Schedule 
4 (for Type B Beneficiaries), paragraphs 1(vi)(C)-(F) of Annex D to Schedule 4 (for 
Type D Beneficiaries), and Annex E to Schedule 4 and Schedule 5 (for LGUs) to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the continued achievement of the objectives of Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of 
the Project); and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
- 19 -
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the Project). 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Effective Date 
falls, to and including the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account is made, have the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year, or 
other period agreed to by the Bank, audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year or such other  
period agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year, or such other period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  in  
scope and  detail  satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit  of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
- 20 -
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year or other period agreed 
to by the Bank, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part A of the Project 
(except Part A.4 of the Project), both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of Part A of 
the Project (except Part A.4 of the Project), both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances 
between 
the 
actual 
and 
planned 
Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project 
(except Part A.4 of the Project), as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 60 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 
of the Project) through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than 60 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, 
and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall take all actions within its powers to protect 
itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the 
currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its operations. 
Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall take all actions within its powers to distribute 
annual cash dividends on its common shares only after adequate provisions have been 
made for, inter alia:  (a) taxes; (b) loan loss provisions; and (c) adjustments to its equity 
caused by within-year inflation. 
- 21 -
Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2003, take all steps 
necessary to reduce the percentage of the net past due loans in its retail loan portfolio to a 
level not exceeding the industry average of the past three consecutive fiscal years for 
commercial banks in the Philippines and, thereafter, the Borrower shall take all actions as 
shall be necessary to maintain such percentage at or below such level.  For purposes of 
this Section 4.05, the term “net past due loans” means loans deemed past due as said term 
is defined by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, minus provisions for loan losses. 
Section 4.06.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
achieve positive profitability in real terms and shall take all actions as shall be necessary 
to maintain the following financial ratios for each Fiscal Year commencing in Fiscal Year 
2004: (i) ratio of risk assets to equity of not more than the ratio prescribed by BSP, as 
may be amended from time to time, and (ii) ratio of liquid assets to short-term liabilities 
of not less than 45%. 
(b) 
For purposes of this Section 4.06 of this Agreement: 
(i) 
The term “profitability in real terms” means audited net profits at 
the end of the Fiscal Year minus the equity net of fixed assets at 
the beginning of the same Fiscal Year, multiplied by the annual 
inflation rate. 
(ii) 
The term “risk assets” shall mean the assets defined as risk assets 
by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, as such definition may be 
amended from time to time by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas. 
(iii) 
The term “equity” means the sum total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings, and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities. 
(iv) 
The term “liquid assets” means cash, short-term deposits in 
banks, and investment in government securities up to one year. 
(v) 
The term “short-term liabilities” means short-term deposits, debt 
service to be paid within one year, and short-term debts to 
suppliers. 
- 22 -
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right 
of the Guarantor to withdraw the proceeds of the Bank-GEF 
Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Bank-GEF Grant 
Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph (a) shall not apply if the 
Guarantor establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Guarantor to perform any of its obligations under 
the Bank-GEF Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
Parts A.4 and C of the Project are available to the Guarantor 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Guarantor under such agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Guarantee Agreement, or the DBP Memorandum of Agreement, or the Bank-GEF 
Grant Agreement, or the DBP-GEF Memorandum of Agreement.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the DBP Memorandum of Agreement, or the GEF Project Agreement, or the DBP-GEF 
Memorandum of Agreement.  
 
(d) 
The legal framework or the principal corporate and organizational 
documents governing the Borrower, including the DBP Charter, shall have been 
abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended, or waived, so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry 
out Parts A (except Part A.4 of the Project) or C.1 of the Project or to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(e) 
The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or for the suspension of 
its operations, so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out Parts A (except Part A.4 of the 
Project) or C.1 of the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
- 23 -
(f) 
The DBP Memorandum of Agreement, or the DBP-GEF Memorandum 
of Agreement, shall have been abrogated, amended, repealed, suspended, or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of the 
Borrower or its ability to carry out Part A (except Part A.4 of the Project) or Part C.1 of 
the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(g) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Borrower will be able to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the DBP 
Memorandum of Agreement, the GEF Project Agreement, or the DBP-GEF 
Memorandum of Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b) 
any of the events specified in subparagraph (a)(i), subject to the proviso 
of subparagraph (a)(ii), of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Bank-GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Guarantor to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; 
(b) 
the UNDP-GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Guarantor to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; 
- 24 -
(c) 
the Guarantee Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
(d) 
the Borrower has adopted the DBP Operational Manual in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(e) 
the DBP Memorandum of Agreement has been entered into between the 
Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement and 
Section 4.01(a) of the Guarantee Agreement;  
(f) 
the Borrower has adopted a financial management manual satisfactory to 
the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5(a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(g) 
the Project Supervisory Committee has been established in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and Section 3.03 of 
the Guarantee Agreement; and 
(h) 
the Technical Working Group has been established in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and Section 3.04 of the 
Guarantee Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 25 -
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The President and Chief Executive Officer of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
   Telex: 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
   248423 (MCI) or 
 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Development Bank of the Philippines 
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner 
Makati Avenue 
Makati, Metro Manila 
Republic of the Philippines 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
PHILDEBANK  
PHILCOM 22197 DBP PH  
(6-32) 815-1611 
 
22197  
 
GLOBE TELECOM 45128 
(6-32) 893-5350 
Manila  
 
DBP PM EASTERN  
TELECOMS 63771 DBP PN 
 
- 26 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Robert Vance Pulley 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By 
/s/ Simon R. Paterno 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 27 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Part A: General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Yen)
to be financed
(1) 
Type A Subloans, 
1,176,318,000 
100% of amounts 
 
Type C Subloans, 
 
disbursed 
 
Type D Subloans, and 
 
Subsidiary Loans 
 
(2) 
Front-end fee 
11,882,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
1,188,200,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments for expenditures incurred 
before that date but after March 1, 2003; provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
a Type A Subloan or a Type C Subloan, under Category (1), unless the 
Borrower shall have: (i) entered into a Type A Subloan Agreement or Type C Subloan 
Agreement, respectively, with a Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary, in 
accordance with paragraph 1(vi) of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, providing 
for such Type A Subloan or Type C Subloan; and (ii) the respective Type A Subloan or 
Type C Subloan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph 1 of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
- 28 -
(b) 
a Type D Subloan, under Category (1), unless the Borrower shall have: 
(i) entered into a Type D Subloan Agreement with a Type D Beneficiary in accordance 
with paragraph 1(vi) of Annex D to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, providing for such 
Type D Subloan; and (ii) the Type D Subloan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Annex D to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
a Subsidiary Loan under Category (1), unless: (i) the relevant PFI shall 
have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower in accordance with 
paragraph 1(v) of Annex C to Schedule 4 to this Agreement providing for such 
Subsidiary Loan; (ii) the PFI shall have entered into a Type B Subloan Agreement with 
the respective Type B Beneficiary, in accordance with paragraph 1(v) of Annex B to 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, providing for such Type B Subloan out of the proceeds of 
the Subsidiary Loan for which disbursements are being made; and (iii) the Subsidiary 
Loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in paragraph 1 of Annex C to Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for Type A Subloans, Type C 
Subloans, Type D Subloans, and Subsidiary Loans; all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-Based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the Project) 
for the six-month period following the date of such request. 
Part B: Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of 
the Project), open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank 
specifically authorized for this purpose by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
- 29 -
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 1, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-Based 
Disbursements;  
(b) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals for payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower 
directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure or Report-Based Disbursements, as the case may be. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 1 if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
- 30 -
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 31 -
Annex A to Schedule 1 
 
Operation of Special Account  
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex A, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex A to Schedule 1, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to the amount of $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
- 32 -
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 33 -
Annex B to Schedule 1 
Operation of Special Account  
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; or 
(b) the amount that the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such reports. 
- 34 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of the first phase of 
the Program aimed at supporting reforms and priority investments to improve quality of 
life in rural areas through the provision of adequate, affordable and reliable energy 
services, in partnership with the private sector.   
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Guarantor, the Borrower, and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A: Rural Electrification Subprojects
1. 
Carrying out of Type A Subprojects through the provision of Type A Subloans. 
2. 
Carrying out of Type B Subprojects through the provision of Type B Subloans. 
3. 
Carrying out of Type C Subprojects through the provision of Type C Subloans. 
4. 
Carrying out of GEF-Assisted Subprojects through the provision of GEF Sub-
grants. 
5. 
Carrying out of Type D Subprojects through the provision of Type D Subloans. 
Part B: Partial Credit Guarantee Fund
Provision of grant funds to RET system financiers to partially cover loan losses 
incurred in the provision of loans to RET system purchasers and RET system suppliers. 
Part C: Capacity Building
1. 
Fostering the reduction of market barriers to the commercialization of renewable 
energy technologies suitable for off-grid electrification by building capacity on selected 
renewable energy technology matters, including appraisal, selection, procurement, and 
supervision related to renewable energy technology subprojects, within the Borrower. 
2. 
Fostering the reduction of market barriers to the commercialization of renewable 
energy technologies suitable for off-grid electrification by building capacity on selected 
- 35 -
renewable energy technology matters, including appraisal, selection, procurement, and 
supervision related to renewable energy technology subprojects, in selected public and 
private sector entities including Department of Energy, Participating Financial 
Intermediaries, RET system suppliers, ECs, and NGOs, and excluding the Borrower. 
3. 
Fostering the reduction of investment risks in the rural power sector by carrying 
out surveys and assessments of the rural electricity services market including renewable 
energy technologies, and applying the findings of such surveys and assessments. 
4. 
Developing and implementing policies on energy tariffs and subsidies, 
regulation, and integration of renewable energy technologies in the missionary 
electrification program pursuant to the Guarantor’s Electric Power Industry Reform Act 
of 2001, Republic Act No. 9136, including the provision of computer hardware and 
software. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
 
- 36 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Installment Share 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 1 and August 1 
Beginning February 1, 2012, through February 1, 2023 
4.17 % 
 
On August 1, 2023 
4.09 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 37 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 38 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary actions to form part of and participate in 
the Project Supervisory Committee to be established and maintained by the Borrower 
jointly with DOE and other relevant national ministries of the Guarantor, as set forth in 
Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement, to be responsible for the overall policy 
direction, guidance, and supervision of policy and institutional reforms under the 
Program. 
2. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary actions to form part of and participate in 
the Technical Working Group to be established and maintained by the Borrower jointly 
with DOE and other relevant national ministries of the Guarantor, as set forth in 
Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement, to serve as a secretariat to the Project 
Supervisory Committee and to be responsible for overall coordination and supervision of 
the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project the DBP Project 
Management Office (DBP-PMO), Financial Management Unit, and Procurement Unit, 
each of which shall be headed by a qualified and experienced manager, assigned with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers, and which are provided with such powers, 
responsibilities, organization and funding as shall be required to enable them to carry out 
the administration, coordination, supervision, procurement, disbursement, accounting, 
financial and project management, and monitoring of the implementation of Parts A 
(except Part A.4 of the Project) and C.1 of the Project. 
4. 
The DBP-PMO shall report periodically to the Project Supervisory Committee 
and Technical Working Group in the carrying out of its responsibilities under the Project. 
5. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
adopt a financial management manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and shall 
not amend, delete, suspend, or waive such manual or any provision thereof without the 
prior consent of the Bank; and 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial management staffing plan for 
the DBP-PMO, satisfactory to the Bank, by September 30, 2004, and carry out such plan 
by November 30, 2004.  
- 39 -
Project Implementation
6. 
The Borrower shall adopt the DBP Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
and thereafter carry out Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the Project) in 
accordance with such manual; and shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive the DBP 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof without the prior consent of the Bank.  
7. 
The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the 
Project) in accordance with the DBP Project Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
8. 
In the carrying out of Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the Project), the 
Borrower shall:  
(a) 
take all such actions as shall be necessary to apply and cause to be 
applied:  
(i) 
the Environmental Policy Framework;  
(ii) 
the Policy Framework: Land Acquisition, Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Displaced Persons; and  
(iii) 
the Project Policy Framework on Indigenous Peoples; and 
(b) 
not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any of such frameworks, or any 
provision thereof, without the prior consent of the Bank. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
9. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank as set 
forth in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement, the carrying out of Part A of the Project 
(except Part A.4 of the Project) and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, in scope and format satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank: (i) a quarterly progress report pertaining to the three-month period ending on 
March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each calendar year, each such 
report to be furnished to the Bank within sixty (60) days after the end of the period 
- 40 -
reported upon, commencing December 31, 2003, and (ii) a mid-term report on or about 
March 31, 2006, in each case integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 9, reporting on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project (except Part A.4 of the 
Project) during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project (except Part 
A.4 of the Project) and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph 9, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part A of the 
Project (except Part A.4 of the Project) and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.  
- 41 -
Annex A to Schedule 4 
Type A Subloans and Type C Subloans  
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
appraise and approve Type A Subprojects and Type C Subprojects that 
are technically feasible, financially viable, and environmentally sound in accordance with 
the pertinent eligibility criteria set forth in the DBP Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
make Type A Subloans and Type C Subloans to Type A Beneficiaries 
and Type C Beneficiaries, respectively, that meet the pertinent eligibility criteria set forth 
in the DBP Operational Manual and in accordance with the Borrower’s credit criteria and 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth in the DBP Operational Manual, 
including: 
Terms of Type A Subloans and Type C Subloans
(i) 
The principal amount of a Type A Subloan or Type C Subloan 
shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the total costs of the 
related Type A Subproject or Type C Subproject; and the equity 
contribution that each Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary 
shall be required to contribute from internally generated 
revenues or from its internal revenue allocation to meet the non-
financed portion of the costs of the related Subproject shall be 
determined by the Borrower on the basis of its review of the 
relevant Subproject proposal and the financial situation of the 
respective Beneficiary, but in each case shall be at least ten 
percent (10%) of the total costs for such Subproject. 
(ii) 
Repayment of the principal amount of each Type A Subloan or 
Type C Subloan shall be made over a period not exceeding 
fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a maximum of five (5) years 
grace. 
(iii) 
Interest shall accrue on the principal amount disbursed and 
outstanding on each Type A Subloan or Type C Subloan at a per 
annum rate freely negotiated between the Borrower and the Type 
A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary, in accordance with the 
method for the determination of lending rates as set forth in the 
DBP Memorandum of Agreement, as provided in Section 3.01(c) 
of this Agreement.  Interest shall be payable on a monthly, 
- 42 -
quarterly, or semi-annual basis as agreed between the Borrower 
and the respective Beneficiary; provided, however, that the 
interest rate per annum on the principal amount disbursed and 
outstanding on each Type C Subloan to an EC shall accrue at an 
interest rate per annum (variable or fixed) calculated in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the DBP Operational 
Manual.  
Procedure, Terms and Conditions
(iv) 
A Type A Subloan or Type C Subloan may be approved to a 
Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary only if such 
Beneficiary:  
(A) 
has prepared an initial environmental examination, 
including an environmental management plan, on the 
basis of standards satisfactory to the Bank and in 
accordance with the Environmental Policy Framework; 
(B) 
has prepared a resettlement action plan satisfactory to 
the Bank and in accordance with the Policy Framework: 
Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Displaced Persons, in the event the Type A Subproject 
or Type C Subproject will involve resettlement of 
Displaced Persons; 
(C) 
has carried out consultations with and a process of 
informed 
participation 
by 
Indigenous 
Peoples, 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the 
Project Policy Framework on Indigenous Peoples, in the 
event that the Type A Subproject or Type C Subproject 
will impact such people and to ensure that the design and 
implementation of the Type A Subproject or Type C 
Subproject will adequately address the needs and 
cultural preferences of such people; and 
(D) 
has prepared and furnished to the Bank the following 
documents, satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
where the proposed Subproject is likely to have 
a significant adverse environmental impact, an 
environmental assessment; 
- 43 -
(ii) 
where the proposed Subproject will involve 
resettlement 
of 
Displaced 
Persons, 
a 
resettlement action plan; and 
(iii) 
where the proposed Subproject will affect 
Indigenous Peoples, an Indigenous Peoples 
development plan. 
(iv) 
The first three (3) Type A Subproject or Type C 
Subproject proposals endorsed by the Borrower 
shall be subject to prior review by the Bank.  
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, in 
sufficient time for its review, the proposals and 
any relevant supporting materials from the 
prospective Type A Beneficiaries or Type C 
Beneficiaries.  The Borrower shall approve each 
of these first three Type A Subloans or Type C 
Subloans only after receiving a “no objection” 
from the Bank to the relevant Subproject 
proposal. 
Type A Subloan Agreements and Type C Subloan Agreements
(v) 
In respect of each Type A Subloan and Type C Subloan, the 
Borrower shall  enter into a Type A Subloan Agreement or Type 
C Subloan Agreement with the relevant Type A Beneficiary or 
Type C Beneficiary whereby the Borrower shall obtain rights 
adequate to protect its own interests and the interests of the 
Bank, including without limitation the rights to: 
(A) 
require the Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary to 
carry out its Type A Subproject or Type C Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, managerial, social, and 
environmental standards and practices satisfactory to the 
Bank, and to maintain adequate records; 
(B) 
require the Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary to 
establish prior to approval of its Type A Subloan or 
Type C Subloan, and thereafter maintain, arrangements 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank to manage the 
- 44 -
implementation of its Type A Subproject or Type C 
Subproject; 
(C) 
require that goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Type A Subloan or Type C Subloan shall 
be procured:  
(i) 
under contracts estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $1,000,000 or more per contract, in 
accordance with procedures consistent with 
those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines), 
provided, 
however, 
that 
the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower; and 
(ii) 
under contracts other than those set forth in 
subparagraph (I) above, at a reasonable price 
following established commercial procedures, 
account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as, in the case of goods, timely 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the 
goods and availability of maintenance facilities 
and spare parts therefor, and in the case of 
works, the technical quality and the competitive 
cost therefor; 
provided, however, that in each case where the 
Type A Beneficiary is an LGU, goods and works 
to be financed out of the proceeds of such Type 
A Subloan shall be procured in accordance with 
Section I of Annex E to this Schedule 4, and in 
each case where the contract is for the 
acquisition 
of 
secondhand 
subtransmission 
facilities by a Type C Beneficiary out of the 
proceeds of a Type C Subloan, such facilities 
shall be procured at a reasonable price 
determined in accordance with the revenue 
- 45 -
potential of such facilities and the relevant 
provisions of the EPIRA and excluding the 
financing of any facilities previously financed 
by the Bank and the financing of the cost of 
land; 
(D) 
require that consultants’ services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Type A Subloan or Type C Subloan 
shall be procured at a reasonable price following 
established commercial procedures, account being taken 
also of other relevant factors such as the quality of such 
services and the competence of the parties rendering 
them; provided, however, that in each case where the 
Type A Beneficiary is an LGU, consultants’ services to 
be financed out of the proceeds of such Type A Subloan 
shall be procured in accordance with Section II of Annex 
E to this Schedule 4; 
(E) 
require each Type A Beneficiary and Type C 
Beneficiary to submit the following contracts to the 
Borrower for its prior review and approval: 
(i) 
each contract for goods or works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; 
(ii) 
each contract for consultants’ services estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for 
firms or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more for individuals; and 
(iii) 
each contract for the purchase by a Type C 
Beneficiary of secondhand subtransmission 
facilities, regardless of its estimated contract 
cost;  
provided, however, that in each case where the 
Type A Beneficiary is an LGU, contracts 
procured under such Type A Subloan shall be 
subject to prior review and approval in 
accordance with Part D of Section I, and Part D 
of Section II, of Annex E to this Schedule 4; 
- 46 -
(F) 
require that each contract for goods, works, and services 
to be financed out of the proceeds of a Type A Subloan 
or Type C Subloan shall be subject to post review by the 
Bank, and each contract not subject to prior review in 
accordance with subparagraph (E) of this paragraph 
1(c)(vi) shall be subject to post review by the Borrower, 
in each case in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, in the 
case of goods or works, and paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by 
the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant 
Guidelines), in the case of consultants’ services; 
provided, however, that in each case where the Type A 
Beneficiary is an LGU, contracts procured under such 
Type A Subloan shall be subject to post review in 
accordance with Part D of Section I, and Part D of 
Section II, of Annex E to this Schedule 4; 
(G) 
require that the Type A Beneficiary or Type C 
Beneficiary implement its environmental management 
plan, resettlement action plan, and program of 
consultation with and informed participation by 
Indigenous Peoples, as the case may be, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 
(H) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representative(s) of the 
Bank, such goods and the sites, works, plans, and 
construction included in the Type A Subproject or Type 
C Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents; 
(I) 
require each Type A Beneficiary and Type C 
Beneficiary to: (i) establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable 
to the Borrower and the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources, and expenditures related to its 
Subproject; (ii) have the records, accounts, and financial 
statements referred to in clause (i) above for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
- 47 -
Borrower and the Bank; and (iii) upon the Borrower’s 
request, furnish to the Borrower copies of the financial 
statements referred to in clause (I) above as so audited 
together with an opinion on such statements, records, 
and accounts and report of such audit by said auditors; 
(J) 
require that each Type A Beneficiary and Type C 
Beneficiary shall not incur any debt, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, unless the net revenues of the 
Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary for the fiscal 
year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence 
or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date 
of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least 1 time the estimated maximum debt service 
requirements of the Type A Beneficiary or Type C 
Beneficiary for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of 
the Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary, including 
the debt to be incurred.  For the purposes of this 
subparagraph (J):  
(i) 
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the 
Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary 
maturing by its terms more than one year after 
the date on which it is originally incurred; 
 
(ii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a 
loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for such debt or for the modification 
of its terms of payment, on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under 
a
guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into; 
 
(iii) 
the term “net revenues” means the difference 
between: 
 
(a) 
the sum of revenues from all sources 
related to operations adjusted to take 
account of the pertinent rates and prices 
of the Type A Beneficiary or Type C 
Beneficiary in effect at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they 
were 
not 
in 
effect 
during 
the 
- 48 -
twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and 
(b) 
the sum of all expenses related to 
operations 
including 
administration, 
adequate 
maintenance, 
taxes 
and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision 
for 
depreciation, 
other 
non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt; 
(iv) 
the term "net non-operating income" means the 
difference between: 
 
(a) 
revenues from all sources other than 
those related to operations; and 
(b) 
expenses, including taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(K) 
require that in the case of each Type A Beneficiary that 
is an LGU, the municipal council and mayor of the LGU 
shall have passed resolutions to participate in the Project 
and to execute a Type A Subloan Agreement with the 
Borrower, satisfactory to the Borrower; 
(L) 
require that each Type C Beneficiary shall have obtained  
the approval and certification of the NEA, pursuant to 
Section 16(i) of the NEA Charter, to enable the Type C 
Beneficiary to receive a Type C Subloan pursuant to the 
terms of a Type C Subloan Agreement with the 
Borrower; 
(M) 
where 
operations 
and 
maintenance 
of 
facilities 
established under a Type A Subproject or Type C 
Subproject is necessary, require the Type A Beneficiary 
or Type C Beneficiary to establish, and maintain until 
completion of the Subproject, an operations and 
maintenance account with sufficient initial capital and an 
established mechanism for replenishment of the account 
- 49 -
to cover the recurrent costs of the relevant Subproject 
during and after implementation; 
(N) 
require that the Type A Beneficiary or Type C 
Beneficiary provide to the Borrower and the Bank all 
such information as the Borrower and the Bank may 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations, and financial condition of the 
Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary and to the 
benefits to be derived from its respective Type A 
Subproject or Type C Subproject; and 
(O) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Type A Beneficiary 
or Type C Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the 
Type A Subloan or Type C Subloan upon failure by such 
Type A Beneficiary or Type C Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under the relevant Type A Subloan 
Agreement or Type C Subloan Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower: 
(a) 
shall exercise its right in relation to each Type A Subloan Agreement and 
Type C Subloan Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of 
the Bank, comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and achieve the purposes of 
the Project; and 
(b) 
shall not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take or concur in any 
action that would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating, or waiving any 
Type A Subloan Agreement or Type C Subloan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
- 50 -
Annex B to Schedule 4 
Type B Subloans 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause Participating 
Financial Intermediaries to: (a) appraise and approve Type B Subprojects that are 
technically feasible, financially viable, and environmentally sound in accordance with the 
pertinent eligibility criteria set forth in the DBP Operational Manual; and (b) make Type 
B Subloans to Type B Beneficiaries that meet the pertinent eligibility criteria set forth in 
the DBP Operational Manual and in accordance with the Participating Financial 
Intermediaries’ credit criteria and procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the DBP Operational Manual including: 
Terms of Type B Subloans
(i) 
The principal amount of a Type B Subloan shall not exceed ninety 
percent (90%) of the total costs of the related Type B Subproject; and the 
equity contribution that each Type B Beneficiary shall be required to 
contribute from internally generated revenues or from its internal 
revenue allocation to meet the non-financed portion of the costs of the 
related Subproject shall be determined by the PFI on the basis of its 
review of the relevant Subproject proposal and the financial situation of 
the Beneficiary, but in each case shall be at least ten percent (10%) of the 
total costs for such Subproject. 
(ii) 
Repayment of the principal amount of each Type B Subloan shall be 
made over a period not exceeding six (6) years, inclusive of a maximum 
of six (6) months grace. 
(iii) 
Interest shall accrue on the principal amount disbursed and outstanding 
on each Type B Subloan at a per annum rate freely negotiated between 
the PFI and the Type B Beneficiary.  Interest shall be payable on a 
monthly, quarterly, or semi-annual basis as agreed between the Borrower 
and the Beneficiary. 
Procedure, Terms and Conditions
(iv) 
A Type B Subloan may be approved to each Type B Beneficiary only if 
such Type B Beneficiary:  
- 51 -
(A) 
if an RET system supplier, has prepared an initial environmental 
examination, including an environmental management plan, on 
the basis of standards satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance 
with the Environmental Policy Framework; 
(B) 
has prepared a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank 
and in accordance with the Policy Framework: Land Acquisition, 
Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, in the 
event the Type B Subproject will involve resettlement of 
Displaced Persons;  
(C) 
has carried out consultations with a process of informed 
participation by Indigenous Peoples, satisfactory to the Bank and 
in accordance with the Project Policy Framework on Indigenous 
Peoples, in the event that the Type B Subproject will impact such 
people and to ensure that the design and implementation of the 
Type B Subproject will adequately address the needs and 
cultural preferences of such people; and 
(D) 
has prepared and furnished to the Bank the following documents, 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
where the proposed Subproject is likely to have a 
significant 
adverse 
environmental 
impact, 
an 
environmental assessment; 
(ii) 
where the proposed Subproject will involve resettlement 
of Displaced Persons, a resettlement action plan; and 
(iii) 
where the proposed Subproject will affect Indigenous 
Peoples, an Indigenous Peoples development plan. 
Type B Subloan Agreements
(v) 
In respect of each Type B Subloan, the PFI shall  enter into a Type B 
Subloan Agreement with the Type B Beneficiary whereby the PFI shall 
obtain rights adequate to protect its own interests and the interests of the 
Bank, including without limitation the rights to: 
(A) 
require the Type B Beneficiary to carry out its Type B 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
- 52 -
with sound technical, financial, managerial, social, and 
environmental standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, 
and to maintain adequate records; 
(B) 
require the Type B Beneficiary to establish prior to approval of a 
Type B Subloan, and thereafter maintain, arrangements 
satisfactory to the PFI and the Bank to manage the 
implementation of its Type B Subproject; 
(C) 
require that goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Type B Subloan shall be procured:  
 
(i) 
under contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more per contract, in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines 
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(ii) 
under contracts other than those set forth in 
subparagraph (I) above, at a reasonable price following 
established commercial procedures, account being taken 
also of other relevant factors such as, in the case of 
goods, timely delivery and efficiency and reliability of 
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and 
spare parts therefor, and in the case of works, the 
technical quality and the competitive cost therefor; 
provided, however, that in each case where the Type B 
Beneficiary is an LGU, goods and works to be financed 
out of the proceeds of such Type B Subloan shall be 
procured in accordance with Section I of Annex E to this 
Schedule 4; 
(D) 
require that consultants’ services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Type B Subloan shall be procured at a 
reasonable price following established commercial procedures, 
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as the 
quality of such services and the competence of the parties 
rendering them; provided, however, that in each case where the 
Type B Beneficiary is an LGU, consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of such Type B Subloan shall be 
- 53 -
procured in accordance with Section II of Annex E to this 
Schedule 4; 
(E) 
require each Type B Beneficiary to submit the following 
contracts to the PFI for the PFI’s prior review and approval: 
(i) 
each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more; and 
(ii) 
each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more for firms or 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more for 
individuals; 
provided, however, that in each case where the Type B 
Beneficiary is an LGU, contracts procured under such 
Type B Subloan shall be subject to prior review and 
approval in accordance with Part D of Section I, and Part 
D of Section II, of Annex E to this Schedule 4; 
(F) 
require that each contract for goods, works, and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of a Type B Subloan shall be 
subject to post review by the Bank, and each contract not subject 
to prior review in accordance with subparagraph (E) of this 
paragraph 1(vi) shall be subject to post review by the PFI, in 
each case in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, in the case of 
goods or works, and paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines, in the case of consultants’ services; 
provided, however, that in each case where the Type B 
Beneficiary is an LGU, contracts procured under such Type B 
Subloan shall be subject to post review in accordance with Part 
D of Section I, and Part D of Section II, of Annex E to this 
Schedule 4; 
(G) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representative(s) of the Bank, 
such goods and the sites, works, plans, and construction included 
in the Type B Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents; 
(H) 
require that each Type B Beneficiary (that is an RET system 
supplier) implement its environmental management plan, 
- 54 -
resettlement action plan, and program of consultation with an 
informed participation by Indigenous Peoples, as the case may 
be, in a manner satisfactory to the PFI and the Bank; 
(I) 
require that each Type B Beneficiary that is an RET system 
supplier shall not incur any debt, except as the PFI shall 
otherwise agree, unless the net revenues of such Type B 
Beneficiary for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of 
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to 
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least one (1) time the estimated maximum debt service 
requirements of such Type B Beneficiary for any succeeding 
fiscal year on all debt of the Type B Beneficiary, including the 
debt to be incurred.  For the purposes of this subparagraph (I),  
(i) 
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of such Type B 
Beneficiary maturing by its terms more than one year 
after the date on which it is originally incurred; 
 
(ii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms of 
payment, on the date of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the 
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into; 
 
(iii) 
the term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
 
(a) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of the 
pertinent prices of the Type B Beneficiary in 
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such revenues 
relate and net non-operating income; and 
(b) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt; 
- 55 -
(iv) the term "net non-operating income" means the 
difference between: 
 
(a) 
revenues from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and 
(b) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues 
in (A) above. 
(J) 
require that in the case of each Type B Beneficiary that is an 
LGU, the municipal council and mayor of the LGU shall have 
passed resolutions to participate in the Project and to execute a 
Type B Subloan Agreement with the PFI, satisfactory to the PFI; 
(K) 
require that the Type B Beneficiary provide to the PFI and the 
Bank all such information as PFI and the Bank may reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the financial condition of 
the Type B Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from its 
respective Type B Subproject; and 
(L) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Type B Beneficiary to the 
use of the proceeds of the Type B Subloan upon failure by such 
Type B Beneficiary to perform its obligations under the relevant 
Type B Subloan Agreement. 
2. 
Each PFI in relation to the Type B Subloans it has made: 
(a) 
shall exercise its right in relation to each Type B Subloan Agreement to 
which it is a party in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Bank, 
comply with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and achieve 
the purposes of the Project; and 
(b) 
shall not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take or concur in any 
action that would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating, or waiving any 
Type B Subloan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
- 56 -
Annex C to Schedule 4 
Subsidiary Loans 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall make Subsidiary 
Loans: 
 
(a) 
to PFIs that meet the pertinent accreditation criteria set forth in the DBP 
Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
in accordance with the Borrower’s credit criteria and procedures and on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, including: 
 
Criteria
(i) 
 The accreditation criteria to be used by the Borrower in 
appraising and selecting PFIs to receive Subsidiary Loans shall 
include the following: 
(B) 
the PFI has experience in managing and implementing a 
micro-finance program; 
(C) 
the PFI has qualified and experienced management and 
personnel in sufficient numbers, and adequate systems 
and procedures, to enable the PFI to be an efficient and 
reliable purveyor of retail credit; 
(D) 
the PFI has adopted an audit manual or other written 
internal controls adequate to ensure its sound financial 
management; and 
(E) 
the PFI has met pertinent financial criteria, as set forth in 
the 
DBP 
Operational 
Manual, 
that 
reflect 
its 
performance in terms including solvency, liquidity, and 
profitability. 
- 57 -
Terms of Subsidiary Loans
(ii) 
Repayment of the principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan 
shall be made over a period not exceeding ten (10) years, 
inclusive of a maximum of six (6) months grace. 
(iii) 
Interest shall accrue on the principal amount disbursed and 
outstanding on each Subsidiary Loan at a per annum rate freely 
negotiated between the Borrower and the PFI in accordance with 
the method for the determination of lending rates as set forth in 
the DBP Memorandum of Agreement, as provided in Section 
3.01(c) of this Agreement.  Interest shall be payable on a 
monthly, quarterly or semi-annual basis as agreed between the 
Borrower and the PFI. 
 
Procedure, Terms and Conditions
(iv) 
The first three (3) Subsidiary Loans endorsed by the Borrower 
shall be subject to prior review by the Bank.  The Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, the 
proposals and any relevant supporting materials from the PFI.  
The Borrower shall approve each of these first three Subsidiary 
Loans only after receiving a “no objection” from the Bank to the 
relevant proposal. 
 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(v) 
In respect of each Subsidiary Loan made by the Borrower to a 
PFI out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall enter 
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the PFI whereby the 
Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank, including without limitation the 
rights to: 
 
(A) 
require the PFI to onlend the proceeds of the Subsidiary 
Loan as one or more Type B Subloans to Type B 
Beneficiaries for the financing of Type B Subprojects, in 
each case (I) pursuant to a Type B Subloan Agreement 
with the Type B Beneficiary whereby the PFI shall 
obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Bank and (II) in accordance with the 
PFI’s credit criteria and procedures and on terms and 
- 58 -
conditions acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, all 
as set forth in Annex B to Schedule 4 of this Agreement 
and the DBP Operational Manual; 
 
(B) 
require the PFI to exercise its right in relation to each 
Type B Subloan Agreement to which it is a party in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the PFI, the 
Borrower, and the Bank, to comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and achieve the 
purposes of the Project; 
(C) 
require the PFI to refrain, except as Borrower and the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, from taking or concurring in 
any action that would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating, or waiving any Type B Subloan 
Agreement to which it is a party or any provision 
thereof; 
(D) 
require the PFI to conduct its operations and affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, commercial 
banking, environmental, social, and financial standards 
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, with qualified and 
experienced management and personnel in sufficient 
numbers, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services, and other resources required to carry 
out its respective lending operations for Type B 
Subloans to Type B Beneficiaries; 
(E) 
require the PFI to (i) establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable 
to the Borrower and the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources, and expenditures related to its 
Subsidiary Loan and Type B Subloans; (ii) have the 
records, accounts, and financial statements referred to in 
clause (I) above for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the 
Bank; and (iii) upon request, furnish to the Borrower 
copies of the financial statements referred to in clause (I) 
above as so audited together with an opinion on such 
- 59 -
statements, records, and accounts and report of such 
audit by said auditors; 
(F) 
require that the PFI take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks 
and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice; 
(G) 
require that the PFI provide to the Borrower and the 
Bank all such information as the Borrower and the Bank 
may reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to 
the administration, operations, and financial condition of 
the PFI and to the benefits to be derived from the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan; and 
(H) 
suspend or terminate the right of the PFI to the use of the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by such 
PFI to perform its obligations under the relevant 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower:  
(a) 
shall exercise its right in relation to each Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with the 
requirements of this Agreement, and achieve the purposes of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
shall not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take or concur in any 
action that would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating, or waiving any 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
- 60 -
Annex D to Schedule 4 
Type D Subloans 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
appraise and approve Type D Subprojects that are technically feasible, 
financially viable, and environmentally sound in accordance with the pertinent eligibility 
criteria set forth in the DBP Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
make Type D Subloans to Type D Beneficiaries that meet the pertinent 
eligibility criteria set forth in the DBP Operational Manual and in accordance with the 
Borrower’s credit criteria and procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
DBP Operational Manual, including: 
Terms of Type D Subloans
(i) 
The principal amount of a Type D Subloan shall not exceed 
ninety percent (90%) of the total costs of the related Type D 
Subproject; and the equity contribution that each Type D 
Beneficiary shall be required to contribute from internally 
generated revenues or from its internal revenue allocation to 
meet the non-financed portion of the costs of the related 
Subproject shall be determined by the Borrower on the basis of 
its review of the relevant Subproject proposal and the financial 
situation of the respective Beneficiary, but in each case shall be 
at least ten percent (10%) of the total costs for such Subproject. 
(ii) 
Repayment of the principal amount of each Type D Subloan 
shall be made over a period not exceeding fifteen (15) years, 
inclusive of a maximum of five (5) years grace. 
(iv) 
Interest shall accrue on the principal amount disbursed and 
outstanding on each Type D Subloan at a per annum rate freely 
negotiated between the Borrower and the Type D Beneficiary, in 
accordance with the method for the determination of lending 
rates as set forth in the DBP Memorandum of Agreement, as 
provided in Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement.  Interest shall be 
payable on a monthly, quarterly, or semi-annual basis as agreed 
between the Borrower and the Beneficiary; provided, however, 
that the interest rate per annum on the principal amount 
disbursed and outstanding on any Type D Subloan to an EC shall 
- 61 -
accrue at an interest rate per annum (variable or fixed) calculated 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DBP 
Operational Manual.  
Procedure, Terms and Conditions
(iv) 
A Type D Subloan may be approved to a Type D Beneficiary 
only if such Beneficiary:  
(A) 
has prepared an initial environmental examination, 
including an environmental management plan, on the 
basis of standards satisfactory to the Bank and in 
accordance with the Environmental Policy Framework; 
(B) 
has prepared a resettlement action plan satisfactory to 
the Bank and in accordance with the Policy Framework: 
Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Displaced Persons, in the event the Type D Subproject 
will involve resettlement of Displaced Persons; 
(C) 
has carried out consultations with and a process of 
informed 
participation 
by 
Indigenous 
Peoples, 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the 
Project Policy Framework on Indigenous Peoples, in the 
event that the Type D Subproject will impact such 
people and to ensure that the design and implementation 
of the Type D Subproject adequately address the needs 
and cultural preferences of such people; and 
(D) 
has prepared and furnished to the Bank the following 
documents, satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
where the proposed Subproject is likely to have 
a significant adverse environmental impact, an 
environmental assessment; 
(ii) 
where the proposed Subproject will involve 
resettlement 
of 
Displaced 
Persons, 
a 
resettlement action plan; and 
- 62 -
(iii) 
where the proposed Subproject will affect 
Indigenous Peoples, an Indigenous Peoples 
development plan. 
(iv) 
Each Type D Subproject proposal endorsed by 
the Borrower shall be subject to prior review by 
the Bank.  The Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, the 
proposals and any relevant supporting materials 
from the prospective Type D Beneficiary.  The 
Borrower shall approve a Type D Subloan only 
after receiving a “no objection” from the Bank 
to the relevant Subproject proposal. 
Type D Subloan Agreements
(v) 
In respect of each Type D Subloan, the Borrower shall  enter into 
a Type D Subloan Agreement with the relevant Type D 
Beneficiary whereby the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to 
protect its own interests and the interests of the Bank, including 
without limitation the rights to: 
(A) 
require the Type D Beneficiary to carry out its Type D 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial, 
social, and environmental standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank, and to maintain adequate 
records; 
(B) 
require the Type D Beneficiary to establish prior to 
approval of its Type D Subloan, and thereafter maintain, 
arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank 
to manage the implementation of its Type D Subproject; 
(C) 
require that goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Type D Subloan shall be procured:  
(i) 
under contracts estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more per contract, in accordance 
with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the Guidelines, provided, 
however, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 
- 63 -
and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower; and 
(ii) 
under contracts other than those set forth in 
subparagraph (i) above, at a reasonable price 
following established commercial procedures, 
account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as, in the case of goods, timely 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the 
goods and availability of maintenance facilities 
and spare parts therefor, and in the case of 
works, the technical quality and the competitive 
cost therefor; 
provided, however, that in any case where the 
Type D Beneficiary is an LGU, goods and works 
to be financed out of the proceeds of such Type 
D Subloan shall be procured in accordance with 
Section I of Annex E to this Schedule 4; 
(D) 
require that consultants’ services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Type D Subloan shall be procured at 
a reasonable price following established commercial 
procedures, account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as the quality of such services and the 
competence of the parties rendering them; provided, 
however, that in any case where the Type D Beneficiary 
is an LGU, consultants’ services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of such Type D Subloan shall be procured 
in accordance with Section II of Annex E to this 
Schedule 4; 
(E) 
require each Type D Beneficiary to submit the following 
contracts to the Borrower for the Borrower’s prior 
review and approval: 
(i) 
each contract for goods or works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; and 
(ii) 
each contract for consultants’ services estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for 
- 64 -
firms or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more for individuals; 
provided, however, that in each case where the 
Type D Beneficiary is an LGU, contracts 
procured under such Type D Subloan shall be 
subject to prior review and approval in 
accordance with Part D of Section I, and Part D 
of Section II, of Annex E to this Schedule 4; 
(F) 
require that each contract for goods, works, and services 
to be financed out of the proceeds of a Type D Subloan 
shall be subject to post review by the Bank, and each 
contract not subject to prior review in accordance with 
subparagraph (E) of this paragraph 1 (b)(vi) shall be 
subject to post review by the Borrower, in each case in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, in the case of goods or 
works, and paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines,
in the case of consultants’ services; 
provided, however, that in each case where the Type D 
Beneficiary is an LGU, contracts procured under such 
Type D Subloan shall be subject to post review in 
accordance with Part D of Section I, and Part D of 
Section II, of Annex E to this Schedule 4; 
(G) 
require that the Type D Beneficiary implement its 
environmental management plan, resettlement action 
plan, and program of consultation with and informed 
participation by Indigenous Peoples, as the case may be, 
in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 
(H) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representative(s) of the 
Bank, such goods and the sites, works, plans, and 
construction included in the Type D Subproject, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(I) 
require each Type D Beneficiary to (i) establish and 
maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources, and 
- 65 -
expenditures related to its Subproject; (ii) have the 
records, accounts, and financial statements referred to in 
clause (i) above for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the 
Bank; and (iii) upon the Borrower’s request, furnish to 
the Borrower copies of the financial statements referred 
to in clause (i) above as so audited together with an 
opinion on such statements, records, and accounts and 
report of such audit by said auditors; 
(J) 
require that each Type D Beneficiary shall not incur any 
debt, except as the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
unless the net revenues of the Type D Beneficiary for the 
fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such 
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ending 
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the 
greater, shall be at least one (1) time the estimated 
maximum debt service requirements of the Type D 
Beneficiary for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of 
the Type D Beneficiary, including the debt to be 
incurred.  For the purposes of this subparagraph (J):  
(i) 
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the 
Type D Beneficiary maturing by its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred; 
 
(ii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (a) under a 
loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for such debt or for the modification 
of its terms of payment, on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (b) under 
a
guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into; 
 
(iii) 
the term “net revenues” means the difference 
between: 
 
(a) 
the sum of revenues from all sources 
related to operations adjusted to take 
account of the pertinent rates and prices 
- 66 -
of the Type D Beneficiary in effect at 
the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and 
(b) 
the sum of all expenses related to 
operations 
including 
administration, 
adequate 
maintenance, 
taxes 
and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision 
for 
depreciation, 
other 
non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt; 
(iv) 
the term “net non-operating income” means the 
difference between: 
 
(a) 
revenues from all sources other than 
those related to operations; and 
(b) 
expenses, including taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(K) 
require that in the case of each Type D Beneficiary that 
is an LGU, the municipal council and mayor of the LGU 
shall have passed resolutions to participate in the Project 
and to execute a Type D Subloan Agreement with the 
Borrower, satisfactory to the Borrower; 
(L) 
require that any Type D Beneficiary that is an EC shall 
have obtained  the approval and certification of the 
NEA, pursuant to Section 16(i) of the NEA Charter, to 
enable such EC to receive a Type D Subloan pursuant to 
the terms of a Type D Subloan Agreement with the 
Borrower; 
(M) 
where 
operations 
and 
maintenance 
of 
facilities 
established under a Type D Subproject is necessary, 
require the Type D Beneficiary to establish, and 
maintain until completion of the Subproject, an 
- 67 -
operations and maintenance account with sufficient 
initial capital and an established mechanism for 
replenishment of the account to cover the recurrent costs 
of 
the 
relevant 
Subproject 
during 
and 
after 
implementation; 
(N) 
require that the Type D Beneficiary provide to the 
Borrower and the Bank all such information as the 
Borrower and the Bank may reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations, 
and financial condition of the Type D Beneficiary and to 
the benefits to be derived from its respective Type D 
Subproject; and 
(O) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Type D Beneficiary 
to the use of the proceeds of the Type D Subloan upon 
failure by such Type D Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under the relevant Type D Subloan 
Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower: 
(a) 
shall exercise its right in relation to each Type D Subloan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Bank, comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement, and achieve the purposes of the Project; and 
(b) 
shall not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take or concur in any 
action that would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating, or waiving any 
Type D Subloan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
- 68 -
Annex E to Schedule 4 
Procurement by Beneficiaries Which Are LGUs 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent per Subproject, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines and Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
2. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent per Subproject, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent per Subproject, may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
- 69 -
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D: Review by the Bank, the Borrower, and PFIs of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for each Subproject shall be furnished to the Borrower, or in the case of 
a Type B Subproject, to the PFI that has made the relevant Subloan, for its review and 
approval, and after any comments from the Borrower or the PFI have been taken into 
account, to the Bank for its review and approval in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
The LGU shall submit the following contracts to the Borrower, or in the case of a 
Type B Subproject, to the PFI that has made the relevant Subloan, for its prior review and 
approval: (i) each contract for goods or works to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B of this Section I; (ii) the first contract for goods or works 
to be procured under each Subproject in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Part C of this Section I; (iii) each contract for goods or works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (iv) the first contract under each Subproject 
for goods to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Part C of this Section I or works to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Part C of this Section I. 
3. 
Post Review
Each contract for goods and works to be procured by an LGU shall be subject to 
post review by the Bank, and each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part shall 
be subject to post review by the Borrower or, in the case of a Type B Subproject, by the 
PFI that has made the relevant Subloan, in each case in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
- 70 -
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B: Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Single Source Selection
Services for subproject preparation and implementation under Parts A.1, A.2, and 
A.5 of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may, with the prior agreement of the Borrower, or in the case of a Type B Subproject, of 
the PFI that has made the relevant Subloan, and of the Bank, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for subproject preparation and implementation 
under Parts A.1, A.2, and A.5 of the Project that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
- 71 -
Part D: Review by the Bank, the Borrower, and PFIs of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the LGU shall submit such 
contracts to the Borrower, or in the case of a Type B Subproject, to the PFI that has made 
the relevant Subloan, for its prior review and approval. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Borrower, or in the case 
of a Type B Subproject, to the PFI that has made the relevant Subloan, for its prior 
review and approval. 
3. 
Post Review
Each contract for consultants’ services to be procured by an LGU shall be subject 
to post review by the Bank, and each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part 
shall be subject to post review by the Borrower or, in the case of a Type B Subproject, by 
the PFI that has made the relevant Subloan, in each case in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. 
- 72 -
SCHEDULE 5 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
With respect to goods and works to be procured by LGUs in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part C of Section I of Annex E to Schedule 4, the 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures of the Guarantor shall apply, except 
that, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank in writing, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) opportunities shall be advertised in 
national newspapers of general circulation, with sufficient time for bidders to prepare 
offers, which shall not be less than 30 days, unless a different time is specifically agreed 
upon by the Bank.  Posting shall also be done in the Government Electronic Procurement 
System (GEPS) or the Procuring Entity’s website.  
2. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors from eligible countries shall be allowed to 
participate, if interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint 
ventures with, local firms.  However, joint ventures will be encouraged. 
3. 
Except for major or complex works, as defined in this Loan Agreement, where 
prequalification is required, prequalification of contractors shall only be undertaken upon 
prior Bank approval. 
4. 
Eligibility screening may be carried out prior to bidding with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
5. 
If any bidder is to be denied access to the bidding process for reasons unrelated 
to its financial and technical qualifications to perform the contract, prior concurrence of 
the Bank shall be sought. 
6. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with the prior concurrence of the Bank in 
advance of bidding.  The Approved Budget Estimate may be disclosed in the 
advertisement or in the bidding documents. 
7. 
The Bank’s domestic preferences shall not be applied in the evaluation of bids, 
and other preferences in effect in the Republic of the Philippines shall also not be used, 
except with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
8. 
Price negotiation shall not be allowed.  However, in the case of a budget 
limitation, an adjustment in the quantities of goods or the scope of work may be agreed 
upon, subject to the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
- 73 -
9. 
Bid opening shall be open to those who wish to attend, and the deadline for 
submission of bids shall be the same as that for bid opening.  All bids received on time 
shall be opened and read publicly. 
10. 
Within 72 hours from bid opening, but prior to bid evaluation, a copy of the 
certified minutes of bid opening shall be furnished to the Bank, which shall contain the 
following: (a) names of the bidders provided with bid documents; (b) original amount 
(unevaluated) of the bid of each bidder, as read; (c) date, time and place of bid opening; 
(d) summary of bid proceedings; and (e) names of the bidders’ representatives and other 
persons present. 
11. 
Suppliers and contractors shall not be required to purchase only local goods or 
supplies, or to hire local labor, except for unskilled labor. 
12. 
Explicit bid evaluation criteria shall be set forth in the bid documents based on 
monetarily quantifiable elements.  
13. 
Modifications exceeding 15% of the contract amount and material changes in the 
conditions during implementation require prior concurrence of the Bank. 
14. 
For foreign suppliers and contractors, prior registration (such as with the Bureau 
of Food and Drugs for the registration for drugs, agency accreditation, etc.), licensing 
(such as licensing by the Philippine Contractors Accreditation Board, etc.), and/or other 
government authorizations (such as a Mayor’s permit, etc.), shall not be a requirement for 
purposes of participating in bidding competitions. Such registration, licensing and/or 
other government authorizations may, however, be required from the selected bidder as a 
condition of signing of the contract, and the Borrower shall not be estopped from 
asserting such requirement where this is mandated under national law.  
15. 
Bid and performance securities shall be specified in the bidding documents, 
which may be in the form of a certified check, letter of credit, or bank guarantee from a 
reputable bank.  
16. 
To obtain the best market prices available, open competitive bidding shall be 
maximized.  For this purpose, requirements shall not include restrictive importation 
permits from private associations or protective preferences for Philippine Flag vessels.  
17. 
Two-envelope system procedures shall not be used unless prior concurrence by 
the Bank has been obtained. 
18. 
Privileges granted to Provincial bidders to match the lowest bid submitted by a 
contractor with the principal office address outside the province in which the project is 
located, shall not be allowed. 
19. 
The use of GEPS for procurement of goods may be allowed with the prior 
concurrence 
of 
the 
Bank.
- 74 -
