CONFORMED 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7162-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Bogotá Urban Services Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
BOGOTA DISTRITO CAPITAL 
 
Dated June 4, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7162-CO        
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BOGOTA DISTRITO 
CAPITAL (the Borrower); 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; 
 
(B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the 
Guarantee Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of an involuntary 
taking of land under the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises) or any other 
fixed or movable asset  acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access 
to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
- 2 -
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or 
permanently; and  “Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons; 
 
(b) 
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) and/or (c) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“CVP” means Caja de Vivienda Popular, the Borrower’s Social Housing 
Entity, or any successor thereto; 
 
(d) 
“DAMA” means Departamento Técnico Administrativo del Medio 
Ambiente, the Borrower’s Environmental Department, or any successor thereto; 
 
(e) 
“DAPD” means Departamento Administrativo de Planeación Distrital, 
the Borrower’s Planning Department, or any successor thereto; 
 
(f) 
“DNP” means Departamento Nacional de Planeación, the Guarantor’s 
Planning Department, or any successor thereto; 
 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, consultants’ 
services, training  and works referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” mean the 
plan of actions, satisfactory to the Bank,  prepared by the Borrower with the assistance of 
CVP and IDU (as hereinafter defined), which sets out the objectives, policies, monitoring 
procedures, time schedules and other environmental provisions  to mitigate adverse 
environmental effects in the carrying out of  the Project; 
 
(j) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 and 
ending on  December 31; 
 
(l) 
“IDU” means Instituto de Desarrollo Urbano, the Borrower’s Urban 
Development Institute, or any successor thereto; 
 
(m) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring indicators; 
 
(n) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
- 3 -
(o)  
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.06 (a)  of this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Peso” or “P$” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
 
(q) 
“Policy Framework for Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project 
Affected Persons” and the acronym “PFRR” mean the policy framework for  resettlement 
and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, satisfactory to the Bank,  in connection with the 
carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project, dated December 6, 2002, prepared by CVP and 
adopted by the Borrower through CVP’s resolution dated January 13, 2003, as said policy 
framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(r) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean the  
resettlement action plan prepared by IDU, satisfactory to the Bank,  in connection with 
the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project, attached to the letter to the Bank from IDU’s  
Director dated December 16, 2002, which sets out the principles and procedures 
governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
 
(t) 
“SHD” means Secretaría de Hacienda Distrital, the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Finance, or any successor threreto; 
 
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in  Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
“STT-FONDATT” means Fondo de Educación y Seguridad Vial de 
Tránsito y Transporte, the Borrower’s Fund for Transport, Transit and Safety Education,  
or any successor thereto; 
 
(w) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, CVP, IDU and STT-FONDATT  pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
 
(x) 
“Transmilenio” or “Transmilenio S.A.” means the Borrower’s entity 
which is responsible for planning and managing its mass transit system, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
Section 1.03  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CVP, IDU and/or STT-
FONDATT. 
- 4 -
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and     
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
consultants’ services, training and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in 
respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on  February 15 and  August 15 in each year. 
 
- 5 -
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the  principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the 
Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
- 6 -
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
 
(i) 
 carry out Part B.6 and carry out Parts B.1, B.2, B.5, B.9, and C 
of the Project, through DAMA, DAPD and SHD, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, 
engineering, 
environmental, 
financial, 
managerial, social, technical, and urban  practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Parts B.1, B.2, B.5, B.9 and C of the 
Project; 
 
(ii) 
 cause CVP to carry out Parts B.3, B.8, and B.10 of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate 
administrative, 
 
engineering, 
environmental, 
financial, managerial, social, technical and urban  practices, and 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable CVP to carry out Parts B.3, B.8, and B.10 
of the Project and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such 
Parts of the Project by CVP; 
 
(iii) 
cause IDU to carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, B.4, and B.7 of the 
Project with due diligence  and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate 
administrative, 
engineering, 
environmental, 
financial, managerial, resettlement, social, technical and urban 
practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable IDU to carry out Parts A.1, 
A.2, A.3, B.4, and  B.7 of the Project and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of such Parts of the Project by IDU; and 
 
(iv) 
cause STT-FONDATT to carry out Parts A.4, A.5, and A.6 of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, educational, engineering, 
environmental, managerial, financial, social, technical and urban 
practices, and technical practices, and shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
- 7 -
STT-FONDATT to carry out Parts A.4, A.5, and  A.6 of the 
Project and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such Parts of 
the Project by STT-FONDATT. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement  with CVP, IDU and with 
STT-FONDATT (the Subsidiary Agreement) satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter 
alia, for: 
(i) 
in the case of CVP: 
 
(A)   
the transfer, on a grant basis, to CVP of the portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part B.8 of the 
Project; 
 
(B) 
the obligation of CVP to carry out Parts B.3,B.8, and 
B.10 of the Project and to comply with all the other 
applicable provisions of this Agreement, including, inter 
alia, those set forth in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 
3.07 and 3.09 ; and 
 
(C) 
the obligation of CVP to provide the Borrower promptly 
with whatever information, regarding Parts B.3, B.8, and 
B.10 of the Project, the Borrower needs to comply with 
the obligations referred to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of 
this Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
in the case of IDU: 
 
(A) 
the transfer, on a grant basis, to IDU of the portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A.2, A.3, and B.7 
of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the obligation of IDU to carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, 
B.4 and B.7 of the Project and to comply with all the 
other applicable provisions of this Agreement, including, 
inter alia, those set forth in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 
3.05, 3.07; and 3.09; and 
 
(C) 
the obligation of IDU to provide the Borrower promptly 
with whatever information, regarding Parts A.1, A.2, 
A.3, B.4, and B.7 of the Project, the Borrower needs to 
comply with the obligations referred to in Sections 4.01 
and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
- 8 -
(iii) 
in the case of STT-FONDATT: 
 
(A) 
the transfer, on a grant basis, to STT-FONDATT of the 
portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts 
A.4, A.5, and A.6 of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the obligation of STT-FONDATT to carry out Parts A.4, 
A.5 and A.6 of the Project and to comply with all the 
other applicable provisions of this Agreement, including, 
inter alia, those set forth in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 
3.05, and 3.07; and 
 
(C) 
the obligation of STT-FONDATT to provide the 
Borrower 
promptly 
with 
whatever 
information, 
regarding Parts A.4, A.5, and A.6 of the Project, the 
Borrower needs to comply with the obligations referred 
to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(c)  
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, 
waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any part thereof. 
 
(d)  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Subsidiary Agreement 
and those of this agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08; and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,  
maintenance, and acquisition of land, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B.3, B.4, B.7, 
B.8, and B.10 of the Project shall be carried out by CVP, IDU, and STT-FONDATT. 
 
Section 3.04.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the 
Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: 
(i)  
detailed arrangements for the overall carrying out of the Project; 
 
- 9 -
(ii) 
an institutional implementation plan of CVP, DAMA, DAPD, 
IDU, SHD, and STT-FONDATT for the management of the 
Project (including, inter alia, allocation of responsibilities 
among staff, yearly planning of activities and budget and time 
allocation for those activities); 
 
(iii) 
the financial management and procurement guidelines to be 
followed by the Borrower and/or CVP, DAMA, DAPD, IDU, 
SHD and STT-FONDATT; during Project implementation; 
 
(iv) 
the guidelines for the preparation of the Annual Action Plans; 
 
(v) 
the procedures and criteria for training and technical assistance, 
environmental 
assessments 
and 
corresponding 
mitigation 
measures; 
 
(vi)  
the guidelines for the implementation of the RAP, the PFRR and 
the EMP in connection with the carrying out of the Project; and 
 
(vii)  
a construction manual to guide works under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3,  
B.6, B.7, and B.8 of the Project (which manual shall include, 
inter alia, the EMP, provisions for erosion control, solid waste 
management, protection of cultural property, occupational health 
guidelines, first aid instructions and restriction on the use of 
child labor). 
 
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend,  waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
 
(c)  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than October 31 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting in year 2003, furnish to the Bank for approval 
and to DNP for review, an annual action plan (the Annual Action Plan), each said plan to 
include, inter alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by CVP, DAMA, DAPD, 
IDU, SHD and STT-FONDATT during the twelve months immediately following the 
presentation of each said plan; (ii) the procurement plan, disbursement schedule and chart 
of accounts for each said twelve month period; and (iii) the amount of counterpart funds 
needed and to be provided by the Borrower to carry out the Project during said calendar 
year;  (b) thereafter implement each said Annual Action Plan, approved by the Bank, in 
accordance with its terms; and (c) carry out the Annual Action Plan for the year 2003 
approved by the Bank prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
- 10 - 
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain in SHD, at all times 
during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit (the PCU) with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
responsibility of the PCU to assist the Borrower in the coordination, monitoring and 
supervision of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and staffed with a financial specialist, 
an administrative specialist, an accountant, a procurement specialist and other 
professional and administrative staff, all hired through competitive processes, in numbers 
and with qualifications and experience acceptable to both, the Bank and the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall not introduce changes in the number of positions of 
the PCU or in the professional skills required for occupying such positions, without 
previously notifying the Bank. 
 
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, and cause CVP, IDU and STT-FONDATT to  maintain, 
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter and the 
data produced by the monitoring and evaluation program referred to in Part C.6 (d)  of 
the Project, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, and cause CVP, IDU, and STT-FONDATT to prepare under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, each March 31 
during  Project implementation, starting with the report due not later than March 31, 
2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the year preceding the date of presentation of the report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the following year; 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank and DNP, by May 31 of each year of Project 
implementation,  or such later date as the Bank shall agree, starting in year 2004, the 
pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports 
and the Bank’s views on the matter;  and 
 
(d) 
carry out an in-depth review (the Mid-Term Review) jointly with CVP, 
DAMA, DAPD, IDU, SHD, STT-FONDATT and the Bank,  two (2) years after the 
Effective Date or such later date as the Bank shall agree, on the progress achieved in the  
implementation of the Project. 
 
- 11 - 
Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall include in each annual budget proposed to its legislature, 
and make available each year of Project implementation, promptly as needed, in Pesos, 
equivalent of Dollars, the required amounts as counterpart funds for the Project. 
 
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  
take and cause CVP and IDU  to take all necessary actions to minimize 
to the extent possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or 
access to productive assets, or of income or means of livelihood, temporarily or 
permanently as a result of Part A.1 and B.3 of the Project; 
 
(b)  
cause CVP to undertake the acquisition of all necessary land, structures 
and other assets required for Part B.3 of the Project, and provide resettlement and 
rehabilitation assistance in accordance with the principles and institutional procedures 
established in the PFRR; 
 
(c) 
submit to the Bank for approval each resettlement plan to be planned, 
designed and implemented under the PFRR; 
 
(d)  
with regard to Part A.1 of the Project, cause IDU to carry out the RAP in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, designed to improve or at least maintain the living 
standards, income earning capacity and production levels of all Affected Persons; 
 
(e)  
cause CVP and IDU to implement their respective Parts of the Project in 
compliance with the environmental mitigation, monitoring, institutional strengthening 
and other environmental measures set forth in the EMP and shall not take any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such compliance; and 
 
(f) 
furnish to the Bank any revisions proposed to be introduced  into the 
RAP, PFRR and/or EMP in order to achieve its objectives and, thereafter, introduce such 
revisions into such plans as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
 
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b)     afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
- 12 - 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within the PCU a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each of the Borrower’s FYs audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each FY: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such financial statements, records and accounts and the report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
- 13 - 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure or the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s, CVP’s, IDU’s and 
STT-FONDATT’s progress reporting obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank and to DNP a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower and approved 
by the Bank; 
 
- 14 - 
(b) 
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement have been contracted by the Borrower as provided in said Section; 
 
(c) 
the PCU has been fully staffed and is operational as provided in Section 
3.06 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
the financial management system for the Project has been established as 
provided in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a proposed plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the selection of consultants under the Project; and 
 
(f) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the respective parties to 
such Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. 
The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the provisions of the RAP are legally valid and enforceable in 
accordance with Colombian law; and 
 
(b) 
that the agreement referred to in Section 5.01 (f) of this Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the respective parties to 
such agreement, in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 5.03. The date September 4, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
- 15 - 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Municipality of Bogotá
Secretariat of Finance 
Carrera 30, Número 24-90, Oficina 601 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
57-1- 350-9891 
 
- 16 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bogota, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Alberto Chueca Mora 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
BOGOTA DISTRITO CAPITAL 
 
By /s/ Israel Fainboim Yaker 
Authorized Representative 
 
Witnessed By /s/ Antanas Mockus Sivickas 
Mayor of Bogota 
 
- 17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A.  
General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods                                                  1,352,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
84% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
 
 
(2) 
Works 
72,037,000 
89% 
 
 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services                        25,242,000  
73% 
        
 
(including audits) 
 
 
(4) 
Training 
369,000 
73% 
 
(5)      Front- end Fee 
1,000,000 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
__________ 
this Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
       100,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; 
 
- 18 - 
(b)  
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred to finance transportation costs and per-diem of trainees, 
rental of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and material under the 
Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $5,000,000 may 
be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Part A of this Schedule on account of payments made within twelve months prior to 
the date of this Agreement, but not earlier than November 4, 2002. 
 
4.   
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods; (b) 
under contract for works; (c) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms; (d) 
under contracts for the employment of individual consultants; and (e) for Training; that 
are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.2 and Section II, 
Part D.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
- 19 - 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
- 20 - 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 21 - 
Annex A 
 
To 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
- 22 - 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 23 - 
Annex B 
 
To 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal  application,  is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
- 24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower’s urban living conditions  
by increasing access, coverage, quality, reliability and inter-agency coordination in the 
provision of public transportation, sanitation services and potable water. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Improved Mobility
1. 
Construction of about 11 kilometers of busways along Avenida Suba, from Calle 
80 to Avenida Ciudad de Cali. 
 
2. 
Construction and rehabilitation of about 265 kilometers of feeder routes to 
connect them to main busways. 
 
3. 
Construction and rehabilitation of bicycle paths and sidewalks, including: (a) 
parallel sidewalk improvement; (b) improvement of existing bicycle paths; (c) technical 
assistance to upgrade the Borrower’s bicycle paths master plan; and (d) design and 
implementation of a plan to promote the use of bicycle paths. 
 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to improve the Borrower’s public transportation 
system, including: (a) assistance to reorganize public transportation systems to make 
them compliant with Transmilenio S.A.; (b) assistance to reduce the excess of public 
transport vehicles; and (c) assistance to prevent traffic accidents. 
 
5. 
Design and implementation of a road safety policy, including: (a) development of 
an integrated system of information on road safety and traffic accidents; (b) establishment 
of safety standards in road designs; (c) improvement of street intersections throughout 
Bogotá; (d)  design and implementation of safety standards for vehicles; (e) provision of 
road safety education; and (f) carrying out of drivers’ training and testing. 
 
6. 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s traffic administration system, through, inter 
alia: (a) development of plans to discourage the use of private cars; (b) design and 
implementation of parking policies; and (c) installation of traffic signal devices. 
 
Part B: Urban Upgrading
1.  
Design and implementation of an urban framework. 
- 25 - 
 
2. 
Development of a strategy to legalize approximately 23 neighborhoods (barrios). 
 
3. 
Resettlement of  population living in risk-prone areas. 
 
4. 
Resettlement of Affected Persons in connection with the carrying out of Parts 
A.1 of the Project. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for environmental rehabilitation 
of  degraded areas. 
 
6. 
Construction of about 67 kilometers of local sewerage lines, 225 kilometers of 
main sewerage lines, and 26 kilometers of potable water lines in low-income 
neighborhoods. 
 
7.  
Construction of about 95 kilometers and rehabilitation of about 25 kilometers of 
access roads to the Borrower’s integrated public transportation system. 
 
8. 
Construction of parks and community facilities. 
 
9. 
Land stabilization, refurbishment and landscaping in the local planning units of 
Jerusalén, Ismael Perdomo, Tesoro and San Blas.
10. 
Provision of technical assistance to about 1,066 low-income families to assist 
them with home improvement and land titling activities. 
 
Part C: Institutional Development
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to IDU to: (a) develop a road infrastructure 
administration system; (b) design information systems; (c) train senior staff in 
administration matters; and (d) design a pilot program to use used tires in road surfacing 
activities. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to CVP to develop an information, evaluation 
and monitoring system for the Borrower’s neighborhood improvement program. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to DAMA to: (a) develop studies 
to control and decrease air pollution; (b) design an information system to monitor 
emissions diagnostic centers; (c) develop studies to determine the economic and health 
effects of air pollution;  (d) design awareness campaigns on air pollution prevention; (e) 
establish local environmental guidelines; and (f) monitor and enforce air quality 
management programs. 
 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to DAPD to: (a) assess the impact of the 
Transmilenio system on urbanization and land-use patterns; (b) develop housing policies, 
- 26 - 
including a unified resettlement policy for Bogotá; and (c) formulate of regional 
development strategies. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical assistance to SHD to develop strategies aimed at 
strengthening fiscal management and increasing Bogotá’s revenue base. 
 
6. 
Provision of support for overall Project coordination, evaluation, supervision and 
implementation, including, inter alia:
(a)  
the strengthening of the capacity of the PCU to comply with its 
responsibilities referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the carrying out of audits under Section 4.01 of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the carrying out of Project studies, including, inter alia, performance 
reviews and impact evaluations; and 
 
(d)    
the design and implementation of a program to monitor and evaluate the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2007. 
 
- 27 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
Beginning on August 15, 2008 through 
February 15, 2009 
 
 
 
 
5% 
 
On August 15, 2009 through February 15, 2012  
4.75% 
 
On August 15, 2012 through February 15, 2015  
4% 
 
On August 15, 2015 through February 15, 2020  
3.75% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 28 - 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each amount. 
- 29 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a)  
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $ 250,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 250,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
- 30 - 
(c) 
Before issuing  any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank for approval, appropriate model 
bidding documents. Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be 
used, said model bidding documents, as approved for bidding under the Project. Any 
change or departure from the model approved shall require Bank’s prior approval. 
 
(d) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to 
appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded 
the corresponding contract. 
 
(e) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents. 
 
(f) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or 
factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
(g) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
 
- 31 - 
2. 
Shopping
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international or national shopping procedures, at the Borrower’s option, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) The Borrower shall obtain and compare at least three quotations to establish 
reasonableness of price.  Comparison of two quotations is justified only when there is 
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that there are only two reliable sources of supply 
(national or foreign as the case may be). For international shopping, the Borrower shall 
request quotations of suppliers from at least two different countries, including the country 
of the Guarantor. Quotation for foreign goods located in the Guarantor’s country and 
offered by a firm located in the Guarantor’s country, are considered as quoted from 
abroad for purposes of satisfying the “two different countries” rule. 
 
(c) The Borrower shall verify that the firms invited to quote are reputable, well 
established, and are suppliers of the goods or services being purchased as part of their 
normal business. 
 
(d) The Borrower shall request quotations by letter, fax, telex, electronic 
messaging, etc., (with proof of receipt and record keeping). Since quotation requests must 
be sent to reputable and well-established suppliers only, the requests should not be open 
to any other supplier and should not be made public. Suppliers shall submit their 
quotations in writing, (i.e., by fax, telex, letter, or electronic messaging with copies to be 
kept for the records).  No bid security is required.  There is no requirement for strict time 
and date for submission of quotations and for public opening, but normally requests for 
quotes indicate the expected date of submission of quotes, within one or two weeks of the 
initial request. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
(a) Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
 
(b) Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare or cause to be 
prepared and furnish to the Bank for approval, appropriate model invitation documents. 
Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be used said model 
invitation documents, for bidding under the Project. Any change or departure from the 
model so approved, shall require Bank’s prior approval. 
 
(c) The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, the basic form of agreement acceptable 
to the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
- 32 - 
 
(d) The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully. 
 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be awarded under Part 
B.1 of this Section; (ii) first contract for goods to be awarded by CVP, DAMA, DAPD,  
IDU, SHD and STT-FONDATT under Part C.1 (a)  of this Section, estimated to cost an 
equivalent of $50,000 or more; (iii) first contract for works under Part C.1 (b) of this 
Section, estimated to cost an equivalent of $150,000 or more; (iv) the first two contracts 
for goods under Part C.2 of this Section; and (v) the first two contracts for works under 
Part C.3 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
- 33 - 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
(a) Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
(b) The invitation to submit proposals should be sent to the consultants’ firms 
included in a short list approved by the Bank. The invitation to submit proposals should 
not be open to any other consulting firm. 
 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000: (a)  shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; or (b) may be procured on a sole source basis 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval as provided in Section 5.01 (e) of this 
Agreement, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan 
shall be updated every six (6) months during the execution of the Project, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as 
updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
- 34 - 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms   
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of the candidates, or the qualifications 
and experience of the candidate in the case of the sole-source selection, as well as the 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix I to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
- 35 - 
 
