CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4687 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Tuberculosis and AIDS Control Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 12, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
22
LOAN NUMBER 4687 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 2003, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“AIDS” means the acquired immune-deficiency syndrome, a severe life 
threatening disease which represents the late clinical stage of human infection with HIV 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“CSW” means commercial sex workers; 
- 2 -
(c) 
“HIV” means the human immunodeficiency virus; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“IDU” means intravenous drug users;  
(f) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor or 
successors thereto; 
(g) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, or any successor or 
successors thereto; 
(h) 
“MOJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, or any successor or 
successors thereto; 
(i) 
“Project Operational Manual” means a manual adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01(c) of this Agreement and setting forth procedures, rules and 
criteria related to Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; 
(j) 
“Participating Region” means any oblast or other region of the Russian 
Federation which may from time to time have been selected by the Borrower for 
participation in the Project on the basis of the selection criteria set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual, and “Participating Regions” means, collectively, all these regions; 
(k) 
“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Borrower (represented by MOF, MOH and MOJ) and RHCF (as hereinafter defined) 
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Implementation Agreement; 
(l) 
“Regional Participation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between RHCF and each Participating Region pursuant to Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Regional Participation Agreement; 
(m) 
“RHCF” means Russian Health Care Foundation, a non-commercial 
foundation established pursuant to Resolution of the Government of the Borrower No. 
1295, dated October 31, 1996, and registered by the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, 
under Certificate of Registration No.
-33 dated November 28, 1996 (re-registered 
- 3 -
November 30, 2001), which is the entity authorized to implement the Project pursuant to 
the Project Implementation Agreement, or any successor thereto; 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(o)        “STI” means sexually-transmitted infections;  
(p) 
“TB” means tuberculosis; and  
(q) 
“Working Group” means the working group for preparation and 
implementation of the Project established by MOH and referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to RHCF. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan.  
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.  
- 4 -
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be payable not later than 60 days 
after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in U.S. Dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
- 5 -
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH and MOJ with the 
assistance of RHCF, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.  
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. The Borrower, represented by MOF, MOH and MOJ, shall enter 
into the Project Implementation Agreement with RHCF, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, inter alia, the 
scope of RHCF’s responsibilities, description of its activities to be carried out during the 
execution of the Project, project reporting, accounting and auditing requirements. 
- 6 -
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall cause RHCF, for the purposes of carrying out regional 
programs under Parts A and B of the Project, to enter into Regional Participation 
Agreements with each of the Participating Regions, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank.  
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall  maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare or cause to be 
prepared, financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause RHCF to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheet, statements of sources and uses of funds and related 
statements) referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
- 7 -
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
RHCF to: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall cause RHCF to prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
- 8 -
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Project Implementation Agreement shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of RHCF to carry out the Project; and 
(b) 
RHCF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Implementation Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date, Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower, represented by MOF, MOH and MOJ, and RHCF; 
(b) 
RHCF is fully operational with structures, functions and staffing 
necessary to start the Project implementation and satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
adopted by the Working Group; and 
(d) 
an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, has been selected in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 of this Agreement to 
undertake the responsibilities described in Section 4.01 of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Implementation Agreement 
referred to in Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and RHCF, and is legally binding upon the MOF, MOH, MOJ and RHCF 
in accordance with its terms.  
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or authorized Deputy 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representatives of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
- 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation 
 
Ilyinka Street, 9 
 
103097 Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
112008  
 
(095) 925-0889 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By:  
/s/ Uriy Leonidovich Shevchenko 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By:  
/s/ Richard Clifford 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, including 
30,440,000 
100% of foreign 
 
technical services, 
 
expenditures, 
 
but excluding 
 
100% of local 
 
goods and 
 
expenditures 
 
technical services 
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
under Parts A.3 
 
81% of local 
 
and A.4 of the Project 
 
expenditures for 
 
other non-medical  
 
items procured 
 
locally, 98% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
medical items 
 
procured locally 
 
(cost net of VAT) 
 
(2) 
Goods, including 
68,270,000 
100% of foreign 
 
technical services, 
 
expenditures, 
 
under Part A.3 
 
100% of local 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
81% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other non-medical 
 
items procured 
 
locally, 98% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
medical items 
 
procured locally 
 
(cost net of VAT) 
 
- 13 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 Expenditure 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(3) 
Goods, including 
18,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
technical services 
 
expenditures, 
 
under Part A.4 
 
100% of local 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
81% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other non-medical 
 
items procured 
 
locally, 98% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
medical items 
 
procured locally 
 
(cost net of VAT) 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ services, 
14,900,000 
79% of expenditures 
 
including audit 
 
for consulting firms, 
 
87% of expenditures 
 
for individual 
 
consultants, and 
 
100% of  eligible 
 
social charges 
 
(5) 
Training 
15,470,000 
100% 
 
(6) 
Operating costs 
2,920,000 
87% of expenditures 
 
for RHCF staff salaries, 
 
100% of social charges, 
 
100% of training costs, 
 
and 84% of other costs 
 
TOTAL 
150,000,000
- 14 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “technical services” means warehousing services, inland 
transportation and insurance, monitoring and reporting, processing of customs and other 
documents, and other Project related technical services;  
(b) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
(d) 
the term “Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, 
seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, those 
from the ministries, administrations, and other relevant institutions and organizations on 
the federal and regional levels involved in the implementation of the Project;  and 
(e) 
the term “Operating costs” means expenditures on account of Project 
implementation, management and monitoring incurred by the RHCF, including its staff 
salaries, social charges, training, including study tours and seminars, office rent, 
maintenance and minor refurbishing of office and equipment, office equipment, furniture, 
materials and supplies, communication costs, support for information systems, translation 
costs, bank charges, and travel and per diem costs of RHCF staff and other reasonable 
expenditures directly associated with implementation of Project activities, all based on an 
annual budget acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $450,000, may be made in respect of Category (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
above on account of payments made before that date but after May 31, 2003; (b) any 
expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank has 
received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement;  and (c) expenditures under Categories (2) and (3) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 above unless relevant parts of a federal strategy for TB control, acceptable to 
the Bank, have been developed in collaboration with WHO and are officially approved by 
the Borrower  and ready for country-wide implementation.  
- 15 -
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 each; (d) training under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (e) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower with the development and 
implementation of the national TB and HIV/AIDS control strategies in order to: (i)  
contain the growth of TB and HIV/AIDS epidemics in the short term; and (ii) halt and 
reverse the courses of these epidemics in the medium term.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Control of Tuberculosis
1.  
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training for the development of 
policies, strategies and protocols for TB control, including legislative and administrative 
measures and public information campaign. 
2.  
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training for strengthening of TB 
surveillance, monitoring, quality control and quality assurance of diagnosis and 
treatment. 
3.  
Provision of consultants’ services, training, laboratory, including bacteriology 
and radiology equipment and supplies for the improvement of TB case detection and 
diagnosis. 
4.  
Provision of consultants’ services and training to improve TB treatment and 
provision of first- and second-line anti-TB drugs. 
Part B: Control of HIV/AIDS 
1.  
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training for the development of 
policies, strategies and protocols for HIV/AIDS control, including legislative and 
research activities, public information campaign,  establishment of a federal HIV/AIDS 
coordination center, establishment of approximately ten (10) regional information 
centers, and assessment of available prevention measures. 
2.  
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training for HIV/AIDS surveillance 
and monitoring at the federal and regional levels, including the establishment of a federal 
- 17 -
coordination center for diagnosis, treatment and psychological support for HIV infected 
people.  
3.  
Provision of laboratory and blood bank equipment and supplies, consultants’
services and training for laboratory services and blood safety improvement.  
4.  
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to improve STI prevention 
and control, including development of STI diagnosis and treatment guidelines and 
protocols, establishment of a federal STI coordination center, establishment and/or 
strengthening of approximately twenty (20) STI diagnostic and treatment centers for IDU 
and CSW, establishment and/or strengthening of three (3) specialized centers for children 
and teenagers with STI.  
5.  
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training for development and 
implementation of targeted HIV/AIDS and STI prevention programs in high risk groups, 
including approximately thirty (30) harm reduction programs for IDU, and for the 
establishment of a federal HIV/AIDS and STI coordination center for training in high risk 
group prevention activities.  
6.  
Provision of drugs, medical equipment, consultants’ services, supplies and 
training for prevention of mother-to-child transmission, including development of 
protocols and strengthening of two (2) federal reference centers for HIV-infected 
children. 
Part C: Project Management 
Provision of audit services and Operating costs under the Project. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
beginning July 15, 2008 
  
6,250,000 
 
through    July 15, 2019 
  
6,250,000 
 
On January 15, 2020 
  
6,250,000
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Related Technical Services 
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Procurement Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and technical 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and technical services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B. 
(a) 
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and technical services shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
(c) 
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
- 20 -
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Medical equipment and supplies, telecommunication systems equipment, hot line 
equipment, surveillance and monitoring equipment, office equipment, vehicles, furniture, 
communication link, educational equipment and publishing of training and information 
materials estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,484,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. 
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded after comparison of not less than three responsive quotations on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
3. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $450,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded after comparison of not less than three responsive quotations on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Procurement Guidelines. 
4. 
Direct Contracting
Goods of a proprietary nature, costing $100,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
5. 
Procurement of Second-line anti-TB drugs 
Drugs for treatment of multi-drug resistant TB and technical services related to 
these drugs may be procured pursuant to the procedures and on terms acceptable to both 
the Bank and the Borrower. 
- 21 -
6. 
Services to Organize Training
When appropriate, a firm will be selected to provide services in respect of 
organization of training upon comparison of three responsive price quotations presented 
by suitably qualified local contractors under agreed procedures.  Individual contract 
values will normally not exceed the equivalent of $100,000.  Larger contracts estimated 
to cost more than $100,000 will be advertised nationally or internationally and bids for 
such contacts will be invited. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Parts B and C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Parts C.2 of this Section, the first three contracts procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Parts C.3 of this Section, each contract 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Parts C.4 and C.5 of this 
Section, and each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.6 of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
- 22 -
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Schedule.  
2. 
In respect of consultants’ services to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Parts B, C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the short list of 
consultants for services for contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Least-cost Selection
Auditing services estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$254,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
- 23 -
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,715,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Individual Consultants
Services that meet requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,651,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
4. 
Public Education, Training, and Research Institutions
Services of unique and exceptional nature may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, 
be procured from Borrower’s public health, training, and research institutions in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II, paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4, 3.7 and 3.8 of 
the Consultant Guidelines if it has been satisfactorily established that no suitably 
qualified private sector consultant is available for the assignment.  
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
- 24 -
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding the above provisions of this paragraph, terms of 
reference for important assignments that might be from time to time selected by the Bank 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
MOH and MOJ shall be responsible for overall management and implementation 
of the Project. 
2. 
MOH shall maintain the Working Group for Preparation and Implementation of 
the Project comprising representatives of MOH, MOJ, MOF, the Ministry of Economic 
Development and Trade, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Federal 
Center for Project Financing, RHCF, and other relevant opganizations, which shall be 
responsible for overall Project coordination, defining the Project implementation strategy, 
ensuring approval in accordance with its competence of the Project related documents, 
and approving and controlling the fulfillment of the Project’s work programs and 
budgets. 
3. 
RHCF shall be responsible for day-to-day Project management and 
implementation, 
including 
financial 
management, 
procurement, 
disbursement, 
engagement of outside auditors and preparation of appropriate auditing reports and their 
dissemination to relevant agencies of the Borrower and to the Bank, and preparation of 
progress reports and annual reports related to the Project, and shall assist the MOH and 
MOJ in the overall coordination of Project activities, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Operational Manual. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, RHCF at all 
times functions in a manner, and with staff, facilities and other resources, and under 
terms of reference necessary and appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
5. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Operational Manual in form and content 
satisfactory to the Bank and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof without a prior approval of the Bank. 
6. 
The Borrower shall be responsible for selecting, through RHCF, regions of the 
Borrower for inclusion in the Project, and such selection shall be in accordance with a 
methodology acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual. 
7. 
RHCF shall not initiate any procurement actions in respect of second-line anti-
TB drugs for any health facility unless this health facility is in full compliance with the 
requirements approved by both MOH and WHO for use of such drugs.  
- 26 -
8. 
RHCF shall, upon agreement with MOH, MOJ and each Participating Region, 
establish the list of medical equipment, drugs and other goods to be provided under Parts 
A and B of the Project to a respective region, specify the training to be provided in 
relation to such equipment, and promptly inform the Bank prior to the initiation of 
procurement actions in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
in respect of any such goods or initiation of any such training. 
9. 
RHCF shall initiate any procurement actions in respect of health facilities in any 
Participating Region, only upon its entering into a Regional Participation Agreement with 
such Participating Region, which shall be acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower and 
include the undertakings of the respective Participating Region to take all necessary 
measures to: 
 
(a) 
ensure that the medical equipment, drugs and supplies provided under 
the Project shall be used at the intended facilities exclusively for the purposes of the 
Project; 
(b) 
ensure participation of the beneficiary health facilities on ordering 
equipment; 
(c) 
provide training for staff using the equipment provided under the Project; 
and 
(d) 
submit periodic reports as requested by RHCF on the status of Project 
implementation and utilization of equipment. 
10. 
The Borrower shall cause RHCF to submit to the Bank, on a semi-annual basis, 
Project progress reports for its review and approval. 
11. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about May 1, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
- 27 -
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 1, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
- 28 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to two 
million dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of three million dollars 
($3,000,000). 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 29 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
- 30 -
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
