CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4684-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Uttar Pradesh State Roads Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 19, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4684-IN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 19, 2003, between INDIA, acting by its President 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the State of Uttar Pradesh (Uttar 
Pradesh) with the Borrower’s assistance and as part of such assistance, the Borrower shall 
make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) 
available to Uttar Pradesh, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Uttar 
Pradesh (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“District-Level Grievance Redress Committee” means a District-Level 
Grievance Redress Committee established, or to be established, and thereafter, 
maintained for each district of Uttar Pradesh in which the Project is to be carried out for 
addressing the grievances of the people arising directly out of, or in connection with, 
implementing the Resettlement Action Plan in the district; 
- 2 -
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Environmental and Social Management Cell” means the Environmental 
and Social Management Cell established within Public Works Department (as such term 
is hereinafter defined) for the purposes of assisting with implementation of the 
obligations of Uttar Pradesh in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement with respect to the 
Resettlement Action Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined), the Environmental 
Management Plans (as such term is hereinafter defined) and the Environmental and 
Social Management Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(e) 
“Environmental 
Management 
Plans” 
means 
Uttar 
Pradesh’s 
Environmental Management Plans dated January 2002, approved by the Bank, including 
any amendments to such plans as may be agreed between the Bank and Uttar Pradesh, for 
implementation of Part A.1 of the Project (highway and road improvements) in accordance 
with certain institutional, mitigating and monitoring measures contained in such plans to 
offset, reduce to acceptable levels, or eliminate any adverse environmental impacts; 
 
(f) 
“Environment and Social Management Plan” means Uttar Pradesh’s 
Environment and Social Management Plan dated January 2002, approved by the Bank, 
including any amendments to such plan as may be agreed between the Bank and Uttar 
Pradesh, for the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project (highway and road 
rehabilitation) in accordance with certain institutional, mitigating and monitoring measures 
contained in such plan to offset, reduce to acceptable levels, or eliminate any adverse 
environmental and social impacts; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Management System” means the financial management 
system that Uttar Pradesh shall establish and operate pursuant to Section 3.01 of the 
Project Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 (a) of the Project Agreement; 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” mean the Borrower and Uttar Pradesh’s fiscal 
year, beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
 
(j) 
“Governing Board” means the Project Governing Board, comprising 
senior officials of the state administration and chaired by the Chief Secretary, established 
by Uttar Pradesh to: (i) monitor project preparation, review tenders and approve award of 
contracts procured through international competitive bidding procedures; (ii) oversee 
- 3 -
implementation of policy issues associated with the Project; and (iii) ensure inter-
department and inter-agency coordination; 
 
(k) 
“Institutional Development Cell” means the cell to be established and 
maintained within the Public Works Department to assist Uttar Pradesh in carrying out 
the Institutional Development Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(l) 
“Institutional Development Plan” means the Institutional Development 
and Strengthening Plan approved by Uttar Pradesh pursuant to a government order, 
including any amendments or updates made from time to time by agreement between 
Uttar Pradesh and the Bank, for improving the institutional capacity of the Public Works 
Department (as such term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(m) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Uttar 
Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means Uttar Pradesh’s Project 
Implementation Plan dated April 2002, satisfactory to the Bank, including any updates 
and amendments made from time to time satisfactory to the Bank, containing, among 
other things: (i) financial projections or forecasts for the Project; (ii) details regarding 
procurement, format and content of project financial reports; and (iii) monitoring and 
performance indicators and procedures to be used for implementation of the Project; this 
plan shall also include any accompanying schedules or exhibits; 
 
(o) 
“Project Management Team” means the Project Management Team to be 
maintained within the Public Works Department, which shall be responsible, among 
other things, for performing routine Project management tasks, monitoring progress in 
Project implementation, the disbursement process under the Project, providing technical 
guidance and general administration, and preparing progress reports; 
 
(p) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the Project Steering Committee, 
chaired by the Secretary in charge of the Public Works Department, which Uttar Pradesh 
has established under a government order and shall maintain for: (i) monitoring and 
coordinating day-to-day aspects of project implementation; (ii) approving Project 
contracts other than those contracts procured through international competitive bidding; 
and (iii) coordinating and overseeing the implementation of the Institutional 
Development Plan; 
 
(q) 
“Public Works Department” means the Public Works Department of 
Uttar Pradesh and any successor thereto; 
 
(r) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
- 4 -
(s) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means Uttar Pradesh’s Resettlement Action 
Plan dated January 2002, approved by the Bank, including any updates and amendments 
as may be agreed between the Bank and Uttar Pradesh, which sets out, among other 
things: (i) its principles and objectives; (ii) the eligibility criteria to identify persons and 
tribal groups affected by the Project; (iii) measures for tribal and other vulnerable groups 
development; (iv) compensation; (v) assistance and rehabilitation entitlements; 
(vi) arrangements to mitigate any impact on cultural properties; and (vii) monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with its provisions; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“Technical Evaluation Committee” means the Project Technical 
Evaluation Committee established and to be maintained by Uttar Pradesh to evaluate all 
procurement issues arising from the Project; and 
 
(v) 
“Uttar Pradesh” means the State of Uttar Pradesh, a state of India, and 
includes any successor thereto. 
 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed to be a reference to Uttar Pradesh. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred 
eighty eight million dollars ($488,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
 
- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
- 6 -
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Uttar Pradesh therein 
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Uttar Pradesh 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Uttar 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the states of India. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Uttar Pradesh 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
- 7 -
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the reports referred to in 
Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, or statements of 
expenditure, as the case may be, submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
- 8 -
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
as a result of events that have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Uttar 
Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Uttar 
Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
all actions set forth in the action plan referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of the 
Project Agreement for which the completion dates specified therein precede the Effective 
Date have been completed. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
- 9 -
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Uttar Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance and Company Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance and Company Affairs 
 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
953-31-66175 FINE IN 
91-11-309-3133 
 
New Delhi 
91-11-309-2511 
 
91-11-309-2477 
 
- 10 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
/s/ Adarsh Kishore 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Michael F. Carter 
 
Country Director, India 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
Part A. 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
     % of 
 Loan Allocated 
 
 Expenditures 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil Works: 
 
(a)  Civil works for 
 
Part A.2 of the  
 
Project (resettlement 
3,200,000 
90% of eligible 
 
and rehabilitation)  
 
 
 
expenditures 
 
(b)  Civil works other 
 
than for Part A.2 
442,300,000 
80% 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods 
6,220,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
(ex-factory cost); 
and 80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
29,630,000 
 
80% of gross 
expenditure for 
consulting services 
(4) 
Training and 
1,770,000 
 
100% of eligible 
NGO services  
 
 
 
 
expenditures 
(5) 
Fee 
4,880,000 
 
Amount due under  
Section 2.04 of this  
- 13 -
Agreement 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
488,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraph 1, above, eligible 
expenditures for NGO services under category (4) shall refer to expenditures incurred by 
those entities or persons that are not liable to tax under the laws of the Borrower. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) (a), 1 (b), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 31, 2002. 
 
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) all contracts for works under 
Part A of the Project (highway and road improvements) and Part B of the Project 
(highway and road rehabilitation) costing less than $4,000,000 each; (ii) goods under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) training 
and NGO services; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
6. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other information 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit, or shall cause Uttar Pradesh to 
submit, to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such request. 
 
Part B. Special Account 
- 14 -
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that it is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case 
may be.
- 15 -
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 16 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements 
 
For the purposes of this Annex:  
 
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $20,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed $150,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts that in the aggregate do not exceed the said Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
- 17 -
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
- 18 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.6 
of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Uttar Pradesh in improving the 
performance of its core road system. 
 
This objective shall be achieved by, among other things: (i) improving the 
capacity and quality of the core state highway network and major district roads; 
(ii) enhancing road maintenance planning and management practices as well as reducing 
the backlog of deferred periodic maintenance on the core road network; (iii) reducing 
accidents along highways and easing the movement of traffic at inter-state border 
crossings; and (iv) strengthening institutional, technical, financial and management 
capacities of the Public Works Department. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: State Highway and Road Improvements
1. 
Increasing the capacity and structural strength of the state core road network 
through upgrading and widening of about 1000 kilometers of state highways and 
constructing four bypass roads and three major bridges. 
 
2. 
Implementation and monitoring of the Resettlement Action Plan. 
 
3. 
Implementation and monitoring of the Environmental Management Plans. 
 
Part B: State Highway and Road Rehabilitation
1. 
Carrying out overlaying, resealing and minor rehabilitation work on about 2500 
kilometers of State Highways and Major District Roads, including a pilot of alternative 
contracting methods based on performance. 
 
2. 
Implementation and monitoring of the Environment and Social Management 
Plan. 
 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening of the Public Works Department
1. 
Implementation of the Institutional Plan to strengthen the Public Works 
Department’s overall capacity, including, among other things, developing an effective 
road maintenance management system in the Public Works Department, enhancing the 
Public Works Department’s accountability to road users, and modernizing road 
management legislation and policy through technical assistance, training and equipment. 
- 20 -
2. 
Technical assistance to Uttar Pradesh for techno-economic feasibility and 
detailed engineering studies to assess the state’s capacity for future road investment 
projects. 
 
Part D: Road Safety and Traffic Operations
Support to Uttar Pradesh for improving road safety and traffic operations in the 
state through the following measures. 
 
1. 
Technical assistance and support to Uttar Pradesh to identify “black spots” on 
state roads, which cause accidents, and to design, implement and supervise minor works 
to enhance road safety and reduce traffic accidents at these “black spots.” 
 
2. 
Installing a computerized accident management system and other road safety 
related equipment.  Training Public Works Department staff and traffic police on road 
safety issues. 
 
3. 
Designing and implementing civil works and installing new equipment to 
upgrade inter-state border crossing facilities. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
September 15, 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
13,685,000 
March 15, 2009  
 
 
 
 
 
13,840,000 
September 15, 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
14,005,000 
March 15, 2010  
 
 
 
 
 
14,165,000 
September 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
14,330,000 
March 15, 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
14,500,000 
September 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
14,670,000 
March 15, 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
14,840,000 
September 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
15,010,000 
March 15, 2013  
 
 
 
 
 
15,185,000 
September 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
15,365,000 
March 15, 2014  
 
 
 
 
 
15,540,000 
September 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
15,725,000 
March 15, 2015  
 
 
 
 
 
15,905,000 
September 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
16,090,000 
March 15, 2016  
 
 
 
 
 
16,280,000 
September 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
16,470,000 
March 15, 2017  
 
 
 
 
 
16,660,000 
September 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
16,855,000 
March 15, 2018  
 
 
 
 
 
17,050,000 
September 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
17,250,000 
March 15, 2019  
 
 
 
 
 
17,450,000 
September 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
17,655,000 
March 15, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
17,860,000 
September 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
18,070,000 
March 15, 2021  
 
 
 
 
 
18,280,000 
September 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
18,490,000 
March 15, 2022  
 
 
 
 
 
18,705,000 
September 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
18,925,000 
March 15, 2023  
 
 
 
 
 
19,145,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amounts in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
- 22 -
