CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4685 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Reform Implementation Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 12, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4685 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 2003, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, represented by MOF and MOH, and RHCF pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Chuvashia Republic Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the subsidiary 
loan agreement to be entered into by MOF, MOH, and Chuvashia Republic in conformity 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time;  
- 2 -
(c) 
“Chuvashia Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the 
Chuvashia Republic Subsidiary Loan Agreement;  
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(f) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(g) 
“Participating Regions” means Voronezh Oblast and Chuvashia 
Republic;  
(h) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual setting forth procedures 
and rules related to Project implementation to be adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;  
(i) 
“Regional Participation Agreements” means agreements to be entered 
into between RHCF and each Participating Region pursuant to paragraph 3 (c)(ii) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Regional Restructuring Plans” means plans adopted by Participating 
Regions pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, describing the activities to be 
carried out in the health sector of the Participating Regions pursuant to the Project;    
(k) 
“Reserve Regions” means any Subject of the Russian Federation selected  
to replace a Participating Region, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement, in accordance with criteria that must be acceptable to the Working Group and 
the Bank; 
(l) 
“RHCF” means Russian Health Care Foundation, a non-commercial 
foundation established pursuant to Resolution of the Government of the Borrower 
No. 1295, dated October 31, 1996, and registered by the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, 
under Certificate of Registration No. 
-33 dated November 28, 1996 (re-registered 
November 30, 2001), which is the entity authorized to implement the Project pursuant to 
the Agency Agreement;  
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
- 3 -
(n) 
“Subsidiary Loan” means any loan provided under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement as defined herein;  
(o) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the Chuvashia Republic 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Voronezh Oblast Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
any similar agreement entered into with any Reserve Region selected pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;   
 
(p) 
“Voronezh Oblast Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the subsidiary 
loan agreement to be entered into by MOF, MOH, and Voronezh Oblast in conformity 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time;  
 
(q) 
“Voronezh Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the 
Voronezh Oblast Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(r) 
“Working Group” means the Working Group for Preparation and 
Implementation of the Project established pursuant to MOH order, and referred to in 
Paragraph A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million dollars  ($30,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars  a separate special deposit account (the Special Account) in a bank acceptable to 
the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 
- 4 -
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be payable not later 
than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
- 5 -
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project through MOH with the assistance of RHCF, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and health care practices; 
(b) 
cause RHCF to perform in accordance with the Agency Agreement all 
the obligations of RHCF therein set forth; 
(c) 
cause the Participating Regions to perform in accordance with the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the Participating Regions therein set 
forth; 
- 6 -
(d) 
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable 
RHCF and the Participating Regions to perform the obligations referred to in paragraphs 
(b) and (c) of this Section, and not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; and  
(e) 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual 
and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
through MOF and MOH, enter into an agency agreement with RHCF 
(the Agency Agreement), on such terms as shall be acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include terms specifying the responsibilities of RHCF in respect of coordination of 
Project activities, accounting, preparation of requests for withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, procurement, and administrative support to the Participating Regions, and make 
available to RHCF the portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to Parts A.1, B, 
C, and D of the Project on a non-reimbursable basis; 
(c) 
for the purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, make available the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (3), and (4) through (6) 
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to each of the 
Participating Regions, under subsidiary loan agreements (the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements) to be entered into by the Borrower, represented by MOF and MOH, and the 
Participating Regions, not later than six (6) months from the date of this Agreement’s 
effectiveness, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, without 
limitation, the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement, and containing a description, satisfactory to the Bank, of the activities to be 
carried out in the health sector of the Participating Region pursuant to the Project and the 
undertakings of the Participating Region related thereto (the Regional Restructuring 
Plans), and containing other provisions as may be necessary for the implementation of the 
Project; and 
(d) 
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project, and not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof without a prior agreement with the Bank. 
- 7 -
Section 3.03. At any time up to the date ninety (90) days after the 
Effectiveness Date, upon a determination that a Participating Region identified in  
Section 1.02 (g) of this Agreement would not be suitable for the Project implementation, 
the Borrower may propose the replacement of a Participating Region by a Reserve 
Region. Substitution of any Participating Region under this Section shall be subject to the 
approval of the Bank.     
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, consultants’ services and training required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare or cause to be 
prepared, financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, and adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause RHCF to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheet, statements of sources and uses of funds and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
- 8 -
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
RHCF to: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
- 9 -
(d) 
the Borrower shall cause RHCF to: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.    
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Paragraph B.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause RHCF to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both  
 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan and 
 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses 
 
of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
 
report, and explains variances between the actual and 
 
planned Project  implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as 
 
at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
- 10 -
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
RHCF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Agency Agreement; 
 
(b) 
any Participating Region shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the Agency Agreement or the Project Operational Manual, or any 
provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in 
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out 
the Project; 
 
(d) 
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the RHCF or for the suspension of its 
operations; and 
 
(e) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Participating Region will be able to perform its obligations under its respective 
Regional Restructuring Plan. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
any of the events specified in Section 5.01 (a), (b) or (d) of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
- 11 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:   
(a) 
the Agency Agreement has been entered into between the MOF, MOH,  
and RHCF; 
(b) 
RHCF has selected and employed essential staff satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
the auditor has been selected acceptable to the Bank to undertake the 
responsibilities described in Section 4.01 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
adopted by the Working Group; and 
(e) 
matrices for regional health accounts, satisfactory to the Bank, have been 
developed for and by each of the Participating Regions. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or authorized Deputy Minister of Finance 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
- 12 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
of the Russian Federation 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097 Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
112008  
 
(7-095) 925-0889 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By 
/s/  Shevchenko Uriy Leonidovich 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Richard Clifford 
Authorized Representative 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
Chuvashia Republic 
 
(1) 
Goods, including inland 
8,200,000 
100% of foreign 
 
transportation and  
 
expenditures; 
 
related insurance,  
 
100% of local 
 
and technical services 
 
expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost);  
 
81% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other non-medical  
 
items procured  
 
locally;  
 
98% of local  
 
expenditures for 
 
other medical items 
 
procured locally 
 
(cost net of VAT) 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
450,000 
87% of individual 
 
consultants;  
 
100% of eligible  
 
social charges; 
 
79% of expenditures 
 
on consulting firms 
 
(3) 
Training 
1,350,000 
100% 
 
- 14 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars )
to be Financed
Voronezh Region 
 
(4) 
Goods, including inland 
8,200,000 
100% of foreign 
 
transportation and  
 
expenditures; 
 
related insurance, 
 
100% of local 
 
and technical services 
 
expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost);  
 
81% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other non-medical 
 
items procured 
 
locally; 
 
98% of local  
 
expenditures for 
 
other medical items 
 
procured locally 
 
(cost net of VAT) 
 
(5) 
Consultants’ services 
450,000 
87% of individual 
 
consultants;  
 
100% of eligible  
 
social charges; 
 
79% of expenditures 
 
on consulting firms 
 
(6) 
Training 
1,350,000 
100% 
- 15 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars )
to be Financed
Federal level 
 
(7) 
Goods, including inland 
1,050,000 
100% of foreign 
 
transportation and  
 
expenditures; 
 
related insurance, 
 
100% of local 
 
and technical services 
 
expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost);  
 
81% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other non-medical 
 
items procured 
 
locally; 
 
98% of local  
 
expenditures for 
 
other medical items 
 
procured locally 
 
(cost net of VAT) 
 
(8) 
Consultants’ services 
5,900,000 
87% of individual 
 
consultants;  
 
100% of eligible  
 
social charges; 
 
79% of expenditures 
 
on consulting firms, 
 
including project audit 
 
(9) 
Training 
1,200,000 
100% 
 
(10) 
Operating costs 
1,850,000
87% for RHCF salaries; 
 
100% for social  
 
charges;  
 
100% for training; 
 
84% of other costs 
 
TOTAL 
30,000,000
- 16 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental costs 
associated with the administration of the RHCF, including: staff salaries, training, 
including study tours and seminars, social charges, office rent, maintenance and minor 
refurbishing of office and equipment, office equipment, furniture, materials and supplies, 
communication costs, support for information systems, translation expenses, bank 
charges, and travel and per diem costs of RHCF staff directly associated with 
implementation of Project activities; and   
 
 
(d) 
the term “Training” means Project related costs and expenses related to 
study tours, seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under a goods 
or service provider’s contract, travel and per diem costs for the ministries, 
administrations, and other relevant bodies on the federal and/or regional levels involved 
in the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $350,000 may be made in respect of Category (10) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made before that date but after  
May 31, 2003; (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (c) expenditures under Categories (1) through (3) or 
Categories (4) through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the 
Bank has received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: (i) the MOF, MOH and the 
respective Participating Region have executed the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement; and (ii) the RHCF and the respective 
Participating Region have entered into the respective Regional Participation Agreement 
in respect of the Project activities to be carried out within the respective Participating 
Region acceptable to the Bank; and (d) any expenditures under Categories (1) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for medical equipment in any 
Participating Region, unless the Participating Region concerned has: (i) adopted a 
Regional Restructuring Plan acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) provided 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the legal framework for implementation of such 
plan is in place. 
- 17 -
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; (d) all training; and (e) all operating 
costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) design a system of federal regulation  
required for effective governance and management of the health system; (ii) develop and 
implement strategic approaches to health sector reform in selected regions;  
(iii) strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOH as a federal executive agency;  
(iv) draw lessons from the implementation of regional programs and disseminate them to 
other regions; and (v) develop and implement an efficient scheme of restructuring of the 
health system, with emphasis on increasing access, quality, and efficiency of health 
services that would benefit from direct investment under the Project. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Rationalization of Health Services
1. 
Provision of goods, services, and training for: 
 
(a) 
development of strategic approaches to comprehensive restructuring of 
health service delivery; new standards for health service institutions based on pilot 
program experience; guidelines and best practice manuals for implementation; and  
 
(b) 
development of new criteria for licensing, standardization, and 
accreditation of health sector institutions, based on quality and outcome; updating and 
unifying the licensing, standardization and accreditation processes; strengthening 
institutional capacity for licensing, standardization and the accreditation system. 
2. 
Provision of Subsidiary Loans to support the carrying out of Regional 
Restructuring Plans, consisting of implementation of tasks referred to in paragraph 1 
above, in (a) Chuvashia Republic; and (b) Voronezh Oblast. 
Part B: Strengthening of Financial and Economic Management
Provision of goods, consulting services, and training to: (i) develop analytical 
tools, including federal and regional financing models and equalization formulae, and to 
apply the models to costing of benefit packages and regional restructuring plans;  
(ii) develop training programs in economic and financial analysis; (iii) develop the best 
practice methods and manuals for financial management and business planning;  
- 19 -
(iv) develop institutional capacity to carry out technology assessment; and (v) develop 
new approaches to contracting and paying health workers. 
Part C: Sector Policy and Governance
Provision of consulting services and training to support the design of a consistent 
body of laws and other regulations to ensure adequate governance of the health sector at 
the federal level and compliance with federal regulations at the regional level.  
Part D: Project Management
Provision of goods, consultants services, training, and operating costs to RHCF 
to support project implementation management and project audit. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
beginning August 15, 2008 
  
1,250,000 
 
through August 15, 2019 
  
1,250,000 
 
On February 15, 2020 
  
1,250,000 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 (a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Furniture for medical facilities, publishing of textbooks, manuals, and regulatory 
documents and other publications, which are estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,140,000 equivalent, 
- 22 -
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,490,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $560,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Direct Contracting
Subscriptions to specialized journals and proprietary spare parts and chemical 
reagents, which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment, and costing $570,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
- 23 -
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Parts B.1 and C.1 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in each of Parts C.2 and C.3 above, and each 
contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in  
Part C.4 above, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
2. 
In respect of consultants’ services to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B and Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the short 
- 24 -
list of consultants for services for contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Quality-based Selection
Services for monitoring of regional implementation activities and development of 
clinical guidelines and monitoring the application of the same, which are estimated to 
cost less than $630,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for critical assignments including monitoring activities under individual 
project components, studies of impacts of individual project interventions, development 
of training courses and materials, training programs involving study tours to foreign 
training centers, regional public information campaign activities, which are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and $1,540,000 in the aggregate, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for advisory services of foreign and local experts to evaluate 
consultants’ deliverables under critical assignments, under Parts A and C of the Project, 
which are estimated to cost less than $140,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
- 25 -
4. 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, such as services to evaluate consultants’ 
proposals and other deliverables under major assignments, training courses, translations, 
preparation and review of textbooks and publications, estimated to cost less than 
$890,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. 
Public Education, Training, and Research Institutions
Services of unique and exceptional nature may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, 
be procured from public health, training, and research institutions in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraphs 1-4 above if it has been satisfactorily established that 
no suitably qualified private sector consultant is readily available for the assignment. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
- 26 -
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III. Other (Logistic Services)
When appropriate, a firm will be selected to provide logistic services in respect 
of training upon comparison of three price quotations presented by suitably qualified 
local contractors under agreed procedures.  Individual contract values will normally not 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000.  Larger contracts estimated to cost more than $50,000 
will be advertised nationally or internationally and bids for such contacts will be invited.  
- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Management and Implementation of the Project
1. 
MOH shall be responsible for overall management and implementation of the 
Project. 
2. 
MOH shall maintain the Working Group for Preparation and Implementation of 
the Project comprising representatives of the MOH, MOF, Ministry of Economic 
Development and Trade, the Federal Center for Project Financing, RHCF, and 
administrations of Participating Regions, which shall be responsible for overall Project 
coordination, defining the Project implementation strategy, ensuring approval of 
documents related to the Project, and approving and controlling the fulfillment of the 
Project’s work programs and budgets. 
3. 
MOH shall maintain an Expert Council, which shall be responsible for:  
(i) provision of methodological support for Project implementation; (ii) review of terms 
of reference and technical specifications for goods and services to be procured under the 
Project; (iii) provision of technical support to the RHCF in the preparation of bidding 
documents; (iv) review of the reports and Project plans; and (v) preparation of documents 
for consideration by the Working Group referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule. 
4. 
RHCF shall be responsible for day-to-day project management and 
implementation, and shall assist the Working Group in the overall coordination of the 
Project activities, and shall also be responsible for financial management, disbursement, 
and preparation of progress reports and annual reports in respect of or related to the 
Project. 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, RHCF and 
Regional project management bodies at all times function in a manner, and with staff, 
consultants, facilities and other resources necessary for the management and 
implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
Annual Reports and Work Program
1. 
The Borrower shall cause RHCF to provide to the Bank, by April 1 of each year 
throughout the execution of the Project, an annual report on the progress of Project 
implementation, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
including a draft annual project plan for the following year. 
- 28 -
(a) 
2. 
In the specification and implementation of 
programs under Parts A.1 and B of the Project, the 
Borrower, through the RHCF, shall ensure the selection 
of beneficiaries in accordance with criteria satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
C. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in 
the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the 
Project, with the exception of Part A.2 of the Project. 
D. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an annual basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank,  the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about May 1, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date;  
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 1, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
(d) 
cause RHCF to submit to the Bank on a semi-annual basis project 
progress reports for its review and approval. 
 
- 29 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (10) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 30 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
- 31 -
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 32 -
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Principal Terms and Conditions 
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
The following terms and conditions of on-lending shall apply for the purposes of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this 
Agreement: 
1. 
Principal Amount of Subsidiary Loans
The Borrower shall make available to the Participating Region the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated to the Participating Region under the respective categories of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  One-half (50%) of such amount 
shall be on a grant basis and one-half (50%) shall be repayable. The principal amount of 
each Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in dollars (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
Account) and be equal to the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid on 
account of goods or services financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan. 
2. 
Repayment Term
The Subsidiary Loan shall be repayable by the Participating Region over a period 
of up to seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace period of up to five (5) years. 
3. 
Interest and Other Payments
The Participating Region shall pay: (i) interest on the repayable portion of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a variable rate 
equivalent to two and one-half percent (2.50%) above the interest rate determined in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) a commitment 
charge on the repayable portion of the Subsidiary Loan at the rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower according to Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
Conditions
The Participating Region shall undertake to: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Regional Restructuring Plan with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and health 
practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such plan; 
 
- 33 -
(b) 
report to the Bank and the Borrower, annually, on the status of the 
indicators, referred to in paragraph D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its 
activities under Part A.2 of the Project and submit the required financial statements; 
 
(d) 
cooperate with RHCF to ensure procurement of goods, consultants 
services, and training required for Part A.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(e) 
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 
and 9.09 of the General Conditions in respect of its activities under Part A.2 of the 
Project; 
 
(f) 
provide assistance to and cooperate with RHCF with respect to the 
RHCF’s procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting functions under Part A.2 
of the Project; 
 
(g) 
give the Borrower the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Participating Region to the use of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by 
such party to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
(h) 
ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in the Participating 
Region’s budget for its respective counterpart contribution to the costs of its activities 
under Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
