CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7104-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Integrated Financial Management Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 10, 2003 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7104-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, 
dated 
February 
10, 
2003, 
between 
REPUBLIC 
OF 
GUATEMALA 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Acuerdo Gubernativo” means Presidential Accord No. 217-95 of the 
Borrower, dated May 17, 1995; 
(b) 
“Administrative Arrangement” means the contractual arrangement No.  
4-95, dated April 6, 1995, entered into between MOF and CGO which stipulates, inter 
alia, the terms under which MOF and CGO have agreed to coordinate the execution of 
the Project, as such arrangement may be amended as provided in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; 
- 2 -
(c) 
“CGO” means Office of the Borrower’s Comptroller General 
(Contraloría General de Cuentas) established pursuant to the provisions of Chapter III of 
Title V of the Borrower’s Constitution; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Executive Committee” means the committee established by the Acuerdo 
Gubernativo;
(g) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“IFM-II” means the Integrated Financial Management Project financed 
in part with the proceeds of Loan No. 4269-GU as provided in the Loan Agreement 
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank on September 11, 1998; 
(i) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring indicators referred to in Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de 
Finanzas Públicas); 
(k) 
“SIAF” means the Borrower’s Integrated Financial Management System 
(Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera), a system to improve the efficiency, 
accountability and transparency of financial management of the Borrower’s public sector; 
and 
(l) 
“UNDP Agreement” means the agreement entered into between: (i) 
MOF and CGO on behalf of the Borrower; and (ii) the United Nations Development 
Programme (UNDP), dated March 4, 1996, and as amended on November 13, 1998, 
whereby UNDP is acting as the Borrower’s agent for the procurement of goods and 
services under IFM-II, as such agreement shall be amended as provided in Section 3.06 
(a) of this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-nine 
million seven hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($29,750,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of interest and the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
- 4 -
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Executive Committee (in 
accordance with the Acuerdo Gubernativo and the Administrative Arrangement), with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
- 5 -
management and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 15 of each year during the implementation of the Project 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 15 of each year during the 
implementation of the Project or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and 
- 6 -
(c) 
carry out an in-depth review (the mid-term review), jointly with the 
Bank, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. 
Section 3.05. (a) In the event that CGO is vested with legal personality after the 
date of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MOF, shall, not later than thirty 30 days 
after the occurrence of said event, cause the Administrative Arrangement to be amended 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and  
(b) 
in case the amendment referred to in the preceding paragraph (a) shall 
occur, the Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Administrative Arrangement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank 
may otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to 
enforce the Administrative Arrangement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.06. (a) For purposes of providing assistance to the Borrower in the 
procurement of goods and services under the Project, the Borrower shall amend the 
UNDP Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia,
UNDP’s obligation to maintain, on behalf of the Borrower, records and accounts 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the Project, in order to 
enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carryout its 
obligations under the UNDP Agreement in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to 
enforce the UNDP Agreement or any provision thereof. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
- 7 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested including as part of the 
information to be provided in each said report, a management 
letter concerning the Recipient’s internal controls; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
- 8 -
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Bank, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the planned and actual uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains 
variances 
between 
the 
actual 
and 
planned 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 30 days after 
the end of the first calendar trimester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar trimester; and thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
30 days after each subsequent calendar trimester, and shall cover such calendar trimester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
CGO and/or the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under the Administrative Arrangement; 
(b) 
the Acuerdo Gubernativo shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to achieve the Project’s objectives; and 
- 9 -
(c) 
UNDP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
UNDP Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the UNDP Agreement has been amended in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b) 
an annual action plan for the implementation of the Project during a 
consecutive twelve-month period (including at least six months after the Effective Date) 
has been presented to the Bank and has been found satisfactory by the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date April 11, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
 
Centro Cívico, 
 
Zona 1, Guatemala 
 
- 10 -
Cable address:  
Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
MINFIP 
9207 MINFIO GU 
 (502) 230-0333 
Guatemala, Guatemala 
  
  
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Guatemala City, Guatemala, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By  /s/ Eduardo Weymann 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Jane Armitage 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
8,412,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost);  
 
and for local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally, please see 
 
paragraph 4 of this 
 
Schedule 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services:  
 
(a) under Part A of the 
5,600,000) 
 
 
 
Project 
) 
 
)
(b) under Part B of the 
6,800,000) 
 
Project 
) 
 
)
100% 
 
(c) under Part D of the 
2,300,000) 
 
Project 
) 
 
)
(d) under Parts C, E and F 
2,500,000) 
 
of the Project 
) 
 
(3) 
Training 
1,420,000 
100% 
 
- 13 -
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(4) 
Operational costs 
490,000 
70% until disbursements 
 
under this Category have 
 
reached an amount of  
 
$280,000; 60% until 
 
disbursements under this 
 
Category have reached 
 
an amount of $380,000; 
 
and 40% thereafter 
 
(5) 
Fees for audits 
55,000 
100% 
 
referred to in 
 
Section 4.01 (b) 
 
of this Agreement 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
1,875,500 
 
(7) 
Front-end fee 
297,500 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(8) 
Premia for Interest  
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of this 
 
Rate Collars 
 
Agreement 
 
_________
TOTAL 
29,750,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of the training activities described under 
Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including travel costs and per 
- 14 -
diem of trainers and trainees, rental of training facilities and equipment, and training 
materials; and  
(d) 
the term “operational costs” means expenditures incurred by the 
Executive Committee and its support staff in connection with the carrying out of its 
functions and responsibilities as provided in the Acuerdo Gubernativo including: office 
supplies and utilities, office rent, and the salaries of such support staff (which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project). 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,975,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within twelve months prior to 
the date of this Agreement, but in no case made prior to February 5, 2002. 
4. 
The percentage of “local expenditures for other items procured locally” to be 
financed by the Bank shall be: (a) 100% in case of goods procured through the services of 
a tax-exempt procurement agent; or (b) 88% in case of all other goods. 
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $150,000; (b) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000; (c) 
contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) 
training and operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to extend and deepen the Borrower’s financial 
sector reforms being pursued under IFM-II with the aim of increasing the effectiveness, 
efficiency, and transparency of public financial management. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Consolidating Integrated Financial Management Reform
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as necessary to: (i) 
continue expanding SIAF coverage throughout the Borrower’s central government to 
include all decentralized agencies, social funds and congress; (ii) expand the reach of 
SIAF down to the Borrower’s budget execution units within ministries and agencies; (iii) 
complete the reform agenda (being implemented under IFM-II) in most of the original 
SIAF sub-systems; and (iv) deepen the Borrower’s budget reform (designed and being 
implemented under Part A. 1 (a) of IFM-II) through the strengthening of macro-budget 
controls and the development of a medium term expenditure framework. 
Part B: Strengthening the Municipal Government
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment necessary to support the 
expansion and implementation of SIAF at the municipal level, including inter alia: (i) 
design and installation of simplified financial management systems for all municipalities; 
(ii) organizational restructuring of municipalities and design and preparation of related 
procedural manuals to implement the above mentioned systems; and (iii) design and 
implementation of a training program for municipal-level staff. 
Part C: Modernizing Human Resource Management
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for strengthening the 
Borrower’s 
human 
resource 
management 
capacity 
through: 
(i) 
design 
and 
implementation of a decentralized system of payroll liquidation; (ii) design and 
implementation of a modern and unified register and database of public employee’s 
personal records; and (iii) strengthening of the Borrower’s National Service Office 
(ONSEC) and line units to manage personnel registries and payroll operations. 
- 16 -
Part D: Strengthening of the Comptroller’s Office
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to continue with the 
institutional strengthening of the CGO (being implemented under IFM- II) through inter 
alia: (i) reengineering of procedures and manuals for newly reorganized divisions and 
refinement of human resource policies; (ii) completion of the creation of internal audit 
units in all ministries, decentralized agencies and selected municipalities; (iii) 
improvement in transparency and public access to information, including the design of 
adequate procedures to handle citizen complaints; and (iv) expansion of the audit training 
program. 
Part E: Electronic Government
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to support the 
implementation of the Borrower’s electronic government initiative through the design of 
a national strategic framework including, inter alia: (i) drafting of an electronic 
government policy and a strategic plan for the public sector; (ii) drafting of legislation in 
electronic commerce; (iii) assessment of the telecommunications infrastructure of the 
Borrower’s national commission of science and technology (Comision Nacional de 
Ciencia y Tecnología); (iv) restructuring and strengthening of the Borrower’s internet 
portal; (v) integration of SIAF into MOF’s website and subsequently MOF’s website into 
the Borrower’s main portal; (vi) electronic integration of key municipalities into the 
Borrower’s portal; (vii) design of necessary infrastructure for implementation of digital 
signatures; (viii) development of on-line and computer-based training systems for SIAF 
applications; (ix) design and implementation of a secure on-line procurement system; (x) 
transformation of the SIAF communications network into the Borrower’s intranet; (xi) 
incorporation of the Borrower’s human resources systems into its intranet; and (xii) 
implementation of a unified electronic library of finance laws, regulations and 
resolutions. 
Part F: Project Coordination
Strengthening of the operational capacity of the Executive Committee through 
the provision of training, technical assistance (including audit services for purposes of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement) and the acquisition of equipment required therefor. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2006. 
 
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 1 and September 1 
 
Beginning March 1, 2008 
4.55% 
 
through March 1, 2018 
 
On September 1, 2018 
4.45% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 18 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,00 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
- 20 -
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b) 
Procurement of all goods under this Part C.1 shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 of this 
Section;  (b) the first two contracts of each calendar year during the implementation of 
the Project  awarded under Part C.1. (a) of this Section; and (c) the first two contracts 
awarded under Part C.2. of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
- 21 -
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Single Source Selection
Maintenance services for information systems for the Project which are estimated 
to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Individual Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants to be carried out under: (a) Part A of  
the Project costing in the aggregate no more than $5,600,000 equivalent; (b) Part B of the 
Project costing in the aggregate no more than $6,800,000 equivalent; (c) Part C of the 
Project costing in the aggregate no more than $2,300,000 equivalent; and (d) Parts C, E 
and F of the Project costing in the aggregate no more than $2,500,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
- 22 -
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference for the 
assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the terms of reference of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
- 23 -
