CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4703 BUL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(District Heating Project) 
 
between 
 
TOPLOFIKACIA PERNIK 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 18, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4703 BUL 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 2003 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TOPLOFIKACIA 
PERNIK (PERNIK-DHC) (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the REPUBLIC of BULGARIA (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;  
(C) 
by an agreement dated October 16, 1991, between the European 
Commission and the EBRD, the European Commission agreed to provide technical 
assistance for the activities related to the implementation of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the EU PHARE/TACIS Program (the EU PHARE/TACIS 
Program); and 
(D) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between TOPOLOFIKACIA 
SOFIA (SOFIA-DHC) and the Bank, the Bank agreed to make available to SOFIA-DHC 
a loan in an amount of �26,000,000 to assist financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the District Heating Project – SOFIA-DHC Loan Agreement (the 
SOFIA-DHC Loan Agreement). 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
- 2 -
ARTICLE I 
 General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the environmental mitigation, 
monitoring, and operating measures under the Project; 
(b)  
“FRP” means the Borrower’s Financial Recovery Plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared by the Borrower and endorsed by the Guarantor, dated May 12, 2003, and 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; designed to enable the 
Borrower to achieve financial self sufficiency by December 2006 and outlining the 
measures to be undertaken by the Borrower and the Guarantor for such purposes, as the 
same may be modified from time to time with the approval of the Guarantor and the 
Bank; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Management Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“PIU” means the Borrower’s Project implementation unit within the 
Borrower, referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“PERNIK-DHC” means Toplofikacia Pernik EAD or Pernik District 
Heating JSC a uni-personally State owned joint stock company registered under 
Bulgarian Law under Pernik District Court Case No. 155/1996 on February 24, 1996; 
(f) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in paragraph 4 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank;  
(g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
- 3 -
(h) 
“SOFIA-DHC” means Toplofikacia Sofia EAD or Sofia District Heating 
JSC, a joint stock company registered under Bulgarian law under company file  
No. 1084/1993 under the Sofia City Court Inventory List on March 1, 1993 and jointly 
owned by the Municipality and the Guarantor. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to seven 
million Dollars ($7,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars  a special deposit account in the Bulgaria National Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
- 4 -
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
- 5 -
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April  15 and  October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, accounting, engineering, 
environmental, and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank, by no later than October 30 of 
each year throughout implementation of Part B of the Project, that sufficient resources 
have been allocated in the Borrower’s annual budget to cover all the counterpart funding 
requirements under this Part B of the Project for the year in question. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
- 6 -
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and accounts for the Project and the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
- 7 -
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish  to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part B of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Part B of the Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned implementation of this part of the Project; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part B of the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
- 8 -
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants 
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: 
(a)  
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, accounting and public utility practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers 
and shall not act in a way which would adversely affect its financial position; 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental 
practices; and 
(c) 
shall provide full disclosure to the Bank prior to modifying the structure 
and/or ownership of the company in a manner that would adversely affect Part B of the 
Project. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement have been employed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Guarantee Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified, and is legally binding upon the Guarantor in accordance with 
its terms.  
Section 6.03. The date of ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Executive Director of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Toplofikacia Pernik 
 
Thermopower Plant Republic 
 
Moshino Neighborhood 
Pernik, 2003 
Republic of Bulgaria 
 
Facsimile: 
 
359 7667 0683 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
TOPLOFIKACIA PERNIK 
 
By 
/s/  Ignat Bojinov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 
 
Director 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
6,930,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) 
Front-end fee 
70,000
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
7,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; provided, however, 
that if the currency of the Guarantor is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods shall be deemed 
to be “foreign expenditures”. 
- 12 -
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent each under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the quality of district heating 
services in the Districts of Sofia and Pernik; (b) improve the financial viability of the 
Borrower; and (c) increase environmental friendly operations in the district heating sector 
in the Districts of Sofia and Pernik, through energy conservation and pollution reduction 
mechanisms. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as may be agreed upon from time to time for Part A of the Project between Sofia-DHC 
and the Bank and for Part B of the Project between the Borrower and the Bank, to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A
1. 
Network Rehabilitation
(a) 
Replacement of transmission pipelines.  
(b) 
Replacement of thermal insulation over ground pipelines. 
(c) 
Replacement of valves and compensators in the transmission and 
distribution network. 
(d) 
Installation of variable speed pumping system at the main heat sources.   
2. 
Sub-Station Rehabilitation
Replacement of sub-stations in the system 
 
3. 
Project Management and Technical Assistance
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance for the purposes of management, 
implementation and supervision of Part A of the Project, including audit services, and the 
carrying out of a public awareness campaign for energy conservation for Part A of the 
Project.   
- 14 -
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance to introduce private sector participation 
in the production, transmission and distribution of heat. 
Part B
1. 
Network Rehabilitation
(a) 
Replacement of transmission pipelines.  
(b) 
Replacement of valves and compensators in the transmission and 
distribution network and the network monitoring system. 
(c) 
Installation of variable speed pumping system at the main heat source.   
2. 
Sub-Station Rehabilitation
Replacement of sub-stations in the district heating system. 
3. 
Rehabilitation of Generation Plant
(a) 
Replacement of the outdated electrostatic precipitator for a boiler in the 
lignite fired combined heat and power plant. 
(b) 
Rehabilitation of the chemical water treatment plant. 
(c) 
Rehabilitation of automation and control equipment for the coal 
conveyor system. 
 
4. 
Project Management and Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for the purposes of management, 
implementation and supervision of Part B of the Project, including audit services, and the 
carrying out of a public awareness campaign for energy conservation for Part B of the 
Project.   
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning October 15, 2008 
  
290,000 
 
through October 15, 2019 
  
290,000 
 
On April 15, 2020 
  
330,000 
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
- 17 -
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the following additional provisions: 
1.  
a point system of evaluation will not be used;  
 
2.  
domestic preference will not be applied;  
 
3.  
international bidders will not be excluded from bidding;  
 
4.  
the draft NCB bidding documents will be prepared and submitted to the Bank for 
review and no-objection before any NCB tender is issued;  
 
5.  
no bids will be rejected at the bid opening. All bids submitted on or before the 
deadline for submission of bids will be opened and read out at public bid opening; 
 
6.  
local bidders shall demonstrate availability of obtaining securities and reasonable 
access to credit;  
 
7.  
bid evaluation criteria shall not be pre-disclosed to bidders; and 
 
8.  
technical specifications must be clearly written.  
 
2. 
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
- 18 -
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost $200,000 or more and the 
first contract procured under Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.2 above, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30, 2005, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by October 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the mid-term report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain during the execution of Part B of the Project, the 
PIU with staff and resources as shall be required to perform its duties in respect of overall 
management and implementation of this part of the Project, including reporting on the 
implementation of this part of the Project to the Borrower’s Executive Director and 
Board of the Directors in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) at all times implement the FRP in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank under Part B of the Project and carry out Part B of the Project in accordance 
with the FRP which shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby: (i) the levels of the 
tariffs proposed by the Borrower for approval by the Regulator shall progressively be 
sufficient to achieve full-cost recovery and financial self-sufficiency;  (ii) operations will 
be run efficiently; and (iii) certain financial and operational targets leading to the 
progressive phase-out of subsidies will be achieved; and 
 
(b) carry out semi-annual review of its financial performance, including a 
financial forecast for the following two years and ensure that sufficient  resources have 
been allocated in the Borrower’s annual budget to cover the counterpart funding 
requirements under Part B of the Project for each year in question, to determine progress 
- 20 -
under the FRP, by April 30 and October 30 each year throughout the implementation of 
Part B of the Project, and thereafter discuss with the Bank the outcome of such reviews.  
 
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan setting forth the work program for the implementation of the Project 
and the key instruments for the execution, coordination of the Project, including 
procurement and financial management procedures, and the Environmental Management 
Plan. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 22 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 23 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the  
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
