CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7132-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Savings and Credit Sector Strengthening and Rural Microfinance Capacity 
Building Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 28, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7132-ME 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 28, 2003, between UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (the Borrower), represented by its signatory on page 14 of this Agreement, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is a signatory of the Articles of Agreement of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the international treaty by 
which the Bank was created), which Articles of Agreement contain, inter alia, general 
provisions relating to loans extended by the Bank; 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS (C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and  the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BANSEFI” means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, 
S.N.C., a Mexican development bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for 
- 2 -
purposes of the Loan and as the entity responsible for implementation of Parts A, C.1 and 
D.1 of the Project; 
(b) 
“BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract” means the contract referred to in 
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“CNBV” means the Borrower’s Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de 
Valores (National Banking and Securities Commission); 
(d) 
“Confederación” means an entity, with its own legal personality, 
consisting of a voluntary association of Federaciones (as hereinafter defined) and 
charged by the Popular Savings and Credit Law (as hereinafter defined) with the 
responsibility of maintaining a deposit protection fund for the benefit of those who 
deposit their savings in Entidades (as hereinafter defined); 
(e) 
“Core Team” means the administrative team within BANSEFI, referred 
to in paragraph 6 of Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Entidad” means an SCI (as hereinafter defined) which, having met 
certain regulatory requirements, has been authorized by CNBV to operate as a popular 
savings and credit entity pursuant to the Popular Savings and Credit Law (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(g) 
“Expansion Project Area” means the municipalities, identified in the 
Implementation Letter (as hereinafter defined) in at least six of the following eight 
geographical regions of the United Mexican States:  (i) the State of Chiapas; (ii) the 
Huasteca area in the States of Hidalgo, San Luis Potosí and Veracruz; (iii) the State of 
Oaxaca; (iv) the State of Veracruz (excluding the Huasteca area therein); (v) the State of 
Guerrero (and adjacent economically marginal areas in the State of Morelos); (vi) the 
State of Michoacán (and adjacent economically marginal areas in the State of México); 
(vii) the State of Puebla (and adjacent economically marginal areas in the State of 
Tlaxcala); and (viii) the Sierra Gorda area in the States of Querétaro and Guanajuato; 
(h) 
“Federación” means an entity, with its own legal personality, consisting 
of a voluntary association of SCIs (as hereinafter defined) and charged by the Popular 
Savings and Credit Law (as hereinafter defined) with the responsibility of exercising 
regulatory supervision, auxiliary to that exercised by CNBV, over SCIs; 
(i) 
“FMR” means a financial monitoring report referred to in Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
- 3 -
(j) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from 
BANSEFI and SAGARPA to the Bank, containing (i) the performance indicators for 
Project monitoring and evaluation, (ii) the list of municipalities that constitute the 
Expansion Project Area, (iii) the Social Development Model and (iv) the criteria for an 
SCI (as hereinafter defined) to qualify for participation in Part B of the Project; 
(k) 
“IPDP” means each of the following indigenous peoples’ development 
plans:  (i) SAGARPA’s (as hereinafter defined) March 2002 Plan de Desarrollo de 
Pueblos Indígenas de las Huastecas; (ii) SAGARPA’s (as hereinafter defined) March 
2002 Plan de Desarrollo de Pueblos Indígenas de Chiapas; and (iii) any such plan 
prepared by SAGARPA (as hereinafter defined) for purposes of paragraph 3 (b) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(l) 
“INI” means the Borrower’s Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National 
Indigenous Peoples Institute); 
(m) 
“Popular Savings and Credit Law” means the Borrower’s Ley de Ahorro 
y Crédito Popular as published in the Borrower’s Diario Oficial de la Federación 
(Official Gazette) on June 4, 2001; 
(n) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
1 of Part A of  Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(o) 
“SAGARPA” means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Agricultura, 
Ganadería, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentación (Secretariat of Agriculture, 
Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and Nutrition); the entity responsible for 
implementation of Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of the Project; 
(p) 
“SCI” means a Mexican savings and credit institution which, 
independently of its corporative or other organizational form, is subject to the provisions 
of the Popular Savings and Credit Law; 
(q) 
“SHCP” means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito 
Público (Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit); 
(r) 
“Social Development Model” means a methodology for the consultative 
elaboration of IPDPs and for the extension of Project benefits to economically 
marginalized sectors of the population of the Expansion Project Area; 
(s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
- 4 -
(t) 
“Technical Unit” means the unit referred to in paragraph 2 (f) of Part B 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to BANSEFI and/or SAGARPA. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixty four 
million six hundred thousand Dollars ($64,600,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, cause BANSEFI to 
open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account on the Borrower’s behalf 
either (i) in the Borrower’s Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, or (ii) with the Bank’s prior written agreement, in BANSEFI or a commercial 
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 1, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
- 6 -
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10. The Director General of BANSEFI, or the Director General 
Adjunto de Finanzas of BANSEFI, and any person or persons whom they shall jointly 
designate in writing are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall: 
(a) 
cause BANSEFI to carry out Parts A, C.1 and D.1 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
technical practices; 
(b) 
carry out Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of the Project through SAGARPA, 
according to the terms, inter alia, of Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement and with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
technical practices; and 
(c) 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower, through SHCP, and SAGARPA as co-executing 
agency, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato) with BANSEFI, satisfactory to 
the Bank, whereby: 
(i) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan and entity responsible for the implementation 
of Parts A, C.1 and D.1 of the Project, meaning that, inter alia, 
BANSEFI agrees to:  (A) represent the Borrower vis-à-vis the 
- 7 -
Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal applications to 
the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify disbursement 
by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds; and (B) carry out 
Parts A, C.1 and D.1 of the Project according to the terms of this 
Agreement (particularly, but not limited to, the terms of Article 
IV of, Schedules 4 and 5 to, and Part A of Schedule 6 to, this 
Agreement); 
(ii) 
SAGARPA agrees to carry out Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of the 
Project; 
(iii) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SHCP and SAGARPA as co-
executing agency, the Borrower shall cooperate fully with 
BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply with all of 
BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in paragraph (a) (i) (A) of 
this Section and in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement as 
to consolidation of information provided by SAGARPA.   
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the 
BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract.  In case of any conflict between the terms of (i) the 
BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract; and (ii) those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
(i)  through SAGARPA in respect of Parts B, C.2, and D.2 of the Project, 
prepare, and (ii) cause BANSEFI in respect of Parts A, C.1, and D.1 of the Project to 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of their respective parts of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
BANSEFI and SAGARPA on said plan. 
- 8 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause CNBV to participate with BANSEFI in 
respect of Parts A and C.1 of the Project, in the exchange of views referred to in Section 
3.04 (b) of this Agreement and in the periodic reviews referred to in paragraph 5 of Part 
A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.  As part of such participation, the Borrower shall 
cause CNBV to also collaborate in the preparation of the studies and reports referred to in 
paragraph 5 (d) of Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through SAGARPA, shall establish arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that INI provides its views to SAGARPA regarding 
implementation of Part B of the Project, which arrangements shall be maintained 
throughout the course of such implementation. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
(A) 
through SAGARPA in respect of Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of 
the Project, maintain; and 
(B) 
cause BANSEFI in respect of Parts A, C.1 and D.1 of 
the Project to maintain, 
a financial management system each, including records and 
accounts; and 
(ii)  
(A)  
through SAGARPA in respect of Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of 
the Project prepare; and 
(B) 
cause BANSEFI in respect of Parts A, C.1 and D.1 of 
the Project to prepare, 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
their respective parts of  the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall:  
- 9 -
(i) 
through SAGARPA have, and shall cause BANSEFI to have, the 
records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year respectively 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(ii) 
through SAGARPA furnish, and shall cause BANSEFI to 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested (including, as part of the 
information to be provided in the first such report, a management 
letter concerning BANSEFI’s and SAGARPA’s internal 
controls); and 
(iii) 
through SAGARPA furnish, and shall cause BANSEFI to 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI: 
(i) 
to have the records and accounts for the Special Account for all 
Parts of the Project audited in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
to consolidate the financial records and accounts, and audits 
thereof required under Section 4.01 (a) and (b) of this 
Agreement; and 
(iii) 
to furnish such information to the Bank. 
(d) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall through 
SAGARPA, and shall cause BANSEFI to: 
- 10 -
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the progress reporting obligations set 
out in paragraph 5 of Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement and paragraph 3 of Part B 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i)  through SAGARPA in respect 
of Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of the Project prepare; and (ii) cause BANSEFI in respect of Parts 
A, C.1 and D.1 of the Project to prepare, both in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report each for their respective 
parts of the Project, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, which: 
 (A) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for their parts of 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, showing separately funds provided under the 
Loan, and explains variances between the planned and 
actual uses of  such funds; 
(B) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned implementation; and 
(C) 
sets forth the status of procurement under their parts of 
Project, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report. 
- 11 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to consolidate the information 
contained in the FMRs referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
(c) 
The first FMR by SAGARPA and BANSEFI, as well as the one 
consolidating both, shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of 
the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
semester; and thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Popular Savings and Credit Law or any part thereof or any 
regulations issued thereunder shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, 
waived or not enforced so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and 
adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
(b) 
BANSEFI shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
the BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur. 
(b) 
Any event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur 
and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
- 12 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Operational Manual has been issued jointly by BANSEFI and 
SAGARPA; 
(b) 
BANSEFI and SAGARPA have in place a financial management system 
(including trained personnel to support such system) each, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
purposes of compliance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract has been entered into between the 
Borrower (through SHCP and SAGARPA) and BANSEFI; and 
(d) 
CNBV has issued regulations required to operationalize Articles 32 and 
116 of the Popular Savings and Credit Law. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and 
BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by BANSEFI 
counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and BANSEFI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BANSEFI in 
accordance with the BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract’s terms. 
Section 6.03. The date May 29, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Director 
General de Crédito Público of the Borrower’s SHCP is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
- 13 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
011-52-555-228-1156 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Alonso García Tamés 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero  
Authorized Representative 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods (excluding vehicles) 
3,749,770 
85% 
 
for Part A.2 of the Project 
 
(2) 
Consultant services (except as 
 
covered by Category (3) below) 
 
(a) under Part A of 
29,976,000 
100% of foreign 
 
the Project 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(b) under Part B of 
 
the Project: 
 
(i) for the Chiapas 
6,100,000 
100% of foreign 
 
and Huasteca regions 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
of the Expansion Project 
 
local expenditures 
 
Area 
 
 
 
(ii) for Expansion 
12,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
Project Area regions other 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
than the regions covered 
 
local expenditures 
 
by sub-Category (i)  
 
- 16 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(c) other: 
 
(i) under Part C.1 of the 
2,049,000 
100% of foreign 
 
Project 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(ii) under Part C.2 of the 
729,000 
100% of foreign 
 
Project 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(iii) under Part D.1 of the 
1,113,230 
100% of foreign 
 
Project 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(iv) under Part D.2 of the 
717,000 
100% of foreign 
 
Project 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(3) 
Training under Parts A, B and 
545,000 
100% of foreign 
 
D of the Project 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(4) 
Incremental operating costs: 
 
 
(a) incurred for 
1,913,000 
85% through the end 
 
the Core Team 
 
of 2004; 55% thereafter 
 
(b) incurred for 
366,000 
85% through the end 
 
the Technical Unit 
 
of 2004; 55% thereafter  
- 17 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(5) 
Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
0 
Amount due under 
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(6) 
Fee 
646,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
4,696,000 
 
________
TOTAL 
64,600,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “training” includes only:  (i) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem expenditures incurred by trainees in connection with their training; (ii) 
reasonable fees charged by consultants serving as trainers; (iii) reasonable course fees 
charged by academic institutions; (iv) reasonable training facility and equipment rental 
expenses; and (v) reasonable training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this paragraph; and 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” includes reasonable recurrent 
expenditures incurred in connection with operation of the Core Team and/or the 
Technical Unit for rentals, travel, room, board and per diem expenditures, maintenance, 
consumable materials and supplies and utilities (but not including any salaries), which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
- 18 -
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $4,500,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred after July 31, 2001 (but in no 
case incurred earlier than the twelve months immediately before the date of this 
Agreement); and 
(b) 
payments for expenditures covered by disbursement category (2) (b) (ii), 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless an IPDP (and related plans 
derived from the Social Development Model), prepared in a manner and with contents 
satisfactory to the Bank, have been issued by SAGARPA for the corresponding 
Expansion Project Area region to be covered by the said category. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less 
than $500,000 equivalent each (with the exception of the first two such contracts 
procured pursuant to Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), for 
consultants’ services provided by firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each (covered by Part F.2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), for 
consultants’ services provided by individuals under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each (covered by Part F.2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) and 
for all training and incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the financial stability and outreach 
capacity of SCIs throughout Mexico, with emphasis on those serving rural areas of the 
country, to thus contribute to the integration of low-income populations into the Mexican 
economy by increasing such populations’ access to financial services and consequently 
aid in the realization of such populations’ income-generating potential.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Strengthening of SCIs and of the Regulatory Supervision Thereof
1. 
(a) 
Carrying out of assessments of the financial and managerial condition of 
individual SCIs so as to determine whether an SCI qualifies for authorization by CNBV 
to operate as an Entidad, whether an SCI requires technical assistance for its 
strengthening or restructuring (such as by merger with another SCI) in order to qualify 
for such authorization, or whether an SCI should be liquidated; (b) provision of technical 
assistance to individual SCIs to support the design and implementation of institutional 
strengthening plans to allow them to qualify for such authorization; and (c) provision of 
technical assistance in support of the liquidation of unviable SCIs. 
2. 
Design, establishment and operation of an information system in support of the 
SCI sector, to allow SCIs to generate and disseminate information for their own use and 
that of sector regulatory bodies such as CNBV. 
3. 
Carrying out of a training program, for the staff of SCIs, focusing on the areas of 
finance, accounting, risk management, credit analysis and governance. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to CNBV to strengthen its capacity 
to supervise the SCI sector and to aid in the development and adaptation of regulations 
required to support such supervision, as well as provision of technical assistance and 
training to Federaciones and Confederaciones in support of the auxiliary supervisory 
roles they play as a supplement to CNBV’s overarching supervisory role. 
 
- 20 -
Part B: Expansion of Financial Services in Rural Areas
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to individual SCIs to support the design and 
implementation of regional development plans to allow them to increase their financial 
services outreach to low-income rural populations within the Expansion Project Area that 
are underserved by the financial services sector (if necessary through the establishment of 
additional  SCIs or through the establishment – – of new branch offices, in which case the 
new offices or additional  SCIs may, as part of the technical assistance package, receive 
computer equipment and software supplied by the technical assistance providers). 
2. 
Provision of training to low-income rural populations in the Expansion Project 
Area on basic principles of household finance and participation in financial transactions. 
Part C: SCI Sector Studies, Monitoring and Information Dissemination
1. 
(a) 
Carrying out of studies regarding, inter alia, financial intermediation, 
sector performance and auxiliary supervision with a view to identify explanatory factors 
for performance, draw lessons from Project results and identify areas for improvement 
and innovation; (b) carrying out of a program, including workshops and information 
campaigns, to inform SCIs, their clients and other stakeholders of reforms in the SCI 
sector and to disseminate lessons from experience in the areas of microfinance, savings 
mobilization, and auxiliary supervision; and (c) carrying out of activities to monitor and 
evaluate Project implementation, development of the SCI sector, impact of sectoral 
reforms and performance of individual SCIs (including the carrying out – on a sample 
basis nationwide – of technical and financial audits of SCIs supported by the Project and 
periodic external evaluations of the sector carried out by Mexican and international 
consultants). 
2. 
(a) 
Carrying out of studies of financial intermediation in rural areas and 
other areas underserved by the Mexican financial services sector, with a view to defining 
new financial methodologies adapted to local conditions; and (b) carrying out of 
activities, supplemental to those described in Part C.1 (c) above, to monitor and evaluate 
Project implementation, development of the SCI sector, impact of sectoral reforms and 
performance of individual SCIs (including the carrying out of technical and financial 
audits of all SCIs supported by Part B of the Project). 
 
Part D: Project Management
- 21 -
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, training and material support to the Core Team 
in order to assist in its Project implementation functions. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance, training and material support to the Technical 
Unit in order to assist in its Project implementation functions. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 1, 2007. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2008 
 
through September 15, 2017 
5% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
- 23 -
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c) 
The invitation to bid for each contract shall be advertised in the 
Borrower’s public electronic advertising and bidding system (COMPRANET) and in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación).  The invitation to bid for 
each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.  
 
Part C: Other Procurement Provisions
1. 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, may be 
- 25 -
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract or per bid package, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to Part B of this Section, as well 
as the first two contracts procured under Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
- 26 -
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:   the 
short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C: Selection under a Fixed Budget
Services for carrying out financial and managerial assessments of individual SCIs 
under Part A.1 of the Project, as well as to support the design and implementation of 
regional development plans under Part B.1 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $9,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D: Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part E: Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
- 27 -
Part F: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, as well as with respect to each such 
contract of such cost covered by Parts C or E of this Section II, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, as well as with respect to each such contract of such cost covered by Parts C or 
E of this Section II, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, except that the terms of reference related to such contracts are subject to prior 
approval by the Bank, absent which approval the respective contract cannot be financed 
by the Loan. 
- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 29 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 30 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 31 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Project Implementation Arrangements 
Part A:
The BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract shall, inter alia, obligate BANSEFI to: 
1. 
Issue an operational manual, jointly with SAGARPA and satisfactory to the 
Bank, setting forth rules and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, such manual 
to include, inter alia, models of the contracts and agreements referred to in paragraphs 3 
(b) of this Part A and 2(b) of Part B of this Schedule, as well as detailed rules and 
procedures for procurement, record-keeping, accounting, auditing and general financial 
management of the Project (and to incorporate the municipalities list and Entidad 
qualification criteria set forth in the Implementation Letter). 
2. 
Carry out Parts A, C.1 and D.1 of the Project in accordance with the terms of the 
Project Operational Manual, to the extent such terms are consistent with those of this 
Agreement (in case of any inconsistency between the terms of the Project Operational 
Manual and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail). 
3. 
With respect to Part A.1 of the Project: 
 
(a) 
select specialized institutions, according to the consultant selection 
methods set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to carry out the assessments and 
provide the technical assistance referred to in said Part A.1; 
 
(b) 
contract in writing with said specialized institutions (using the model 
contract set forth in the Project Operational Manual) so that they:  (i) carry out said 
assessments according to assessment guidelines prepared by CNBV; (ii) enter into a 
written agreement (using the model agreement set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual) with a Federación (and any of the Federación’s member SCIs willing to co-sign 
said agreement) to either (A) provide each such SCI with the technical assistance referred 
to in said Part A.1 in exchange for said SCI’s commitment to implement SCI institutional 
strengthening plans set forth in such agreements and thus meet SCI semi-annual 
performance standards and targets also set forth in such agreements (which plans, 
standards and targets are consistent with the requirements that must be met in order for an 
SCI to qualify for CNBV authorization to operate as an Entidad) or (B) assist in each 
such SCI’s liquidation if the prior assessment of the SCI established that the SCI is 
unviable; and (iii) suspend all technical assistance provision to an SCI at BANSEFI’s 
- 32 -
request if the SCI fails to meet its semi-annual performance standards and targets referred 
to above; 
 
(c) 
pay said specialized institutions for the services they render under their 
contracts with BANSEFI referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule; 
(d) 
systematically monitor said agreements between said specialized 
institutions and the SCIs in order to verify compliance with said semi-annual 
performance standards and targets; and 
(e) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under its contracts, 
referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, with the specialized institutions also 
referred to therein, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; 
4. 
With respect to Part A.2 of the Project, provide the services of the information 
system referred to therein to approximately 40 SCIs representing approximately 1000 
branch offices throughout Mexico and gradually establish a fee-for-service regime 
whereby the full operating costs of the information system would be recoverable from 
SCIs by the end of the system’s first five years of operation. 
5. 
(a) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable BANSEFI to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators 
specified in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of Parts A, C.1 and D.1 of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and every year thereafter 
during the period of Project implementation, annual reports integrating the results of the 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of such reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; 
(c) 
review with the Bank shortly after such reports’ preparation, the reports 
referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and 
taking into account the Bank’s views on the matter; 
- 33 -
(d) 
as part of the annual review to be held during 2004, as well as at the 
conclusion of Project implementation, discuss the results of in-depth and case studies, 
prepared by BANSEFI (with CNBV collaboration) separately for such review and 
thereafter for such conclusion under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, relating 
to Project and SCI sector performance; and 
(e) 
participate in the reviews referred to in paragraph 3 of Part B of this 
Schedule; and 
6. 
Maintain a team within BANSEFI throughout implementation of Parts A, C.1 
and D.1 of the Project, with sufficient resources and staff in numbers and with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, acting under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank to support the execution of such Parts. 
Part B:
1. 
SAGARPA shall issue the Project Operational Manual jointly with BANSEFI 
and carry out Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of the Project in accordance with the terms of the 
Project Operational Manual, to the extent such terms are consistent with those of this 
Agreement (in case of any inconsistency between the terms of the Project Operational 
Manual and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail). 
2. 
With respect to Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of the Project, SAGARPA shall: 
 
(a) 
select specialized institutions, according to the consultant selection 
methods set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to provide the technical assistance, 
training, computer equipment and software referred to in Part B of the Project; 
 
(b) 
contract in writing with said specialized institutions (using the model 
contract set forth in the Project Operational Manual) so that they:  (i) enter into a written 
agreement (using the model agreement set forth in the Project Operational Manual) with 
a qualifying SCI to provide each such SCI and relevant populations in the area served by 
the SCI with the technical assistance and training, respectively, referred to in said Part B 
in exchange for said SCI’s commitment to implement a regional development plan 
referred to in said Part B according to annual performance standards and targets also set 
forth in such agreements; and (ii) suspend all technical assistance provision to an SCI at 
SAGARPA’s request if the SCI fails to meet its annual performance standards and targets 
referred to above; 
 
(c) 
 pay said specialized institutions for the services they render under their 
contracts in paragraph 2 (b) of this Part B; 
- 34 -
(d) 
systematically monitor said agreements between said specialized 
institutions and each SCI in order to verify compliance with said annual performance 
standards and targets; 
(e) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under its contracts, 
referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Part B, with the specialized institutions also referred 
to therein, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan; 
(f) 
maintain a unit within SAGARPA throughout implementation of Parts B, 
C.2 and D.2 of the Project, with sufficient resources and staff in numbers and with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, acting under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank to support the execution of such Parts (the Technical Unit to be 
led throughout such implementation by a full-time coordinator reporting directly to 
SAGARPA’s Subsecretario de Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development Subsecretary); and 
(g) 
ensure that the IPDP and Social Development Model for each of the six 
regions of the Expansion Project Area is carried out for the region in question as part of 
the implementation of Part B of the Project (through, inter alia, integration of IPDP 
outcomes into the standards and targets referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Part B). 
3. 
SAGARPA shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable SAGARPA to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators 
specified in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of Parts B, C.2 and D.2 of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and every year thereafter 
during the period of Project implementation, annual reports integrating the results of the 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of such reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank shortly after such reports’ preparation, the reports 
referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and 
taking 
into 
account 
the 
Bank’s 
views 
on 
the 
matter.
- 35 -
