CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4695 CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  July 10, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER  4695 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 2003, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Tianjin Municipality (Tianjin) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to 
Tianjin, as set forth in this Agreement;  
(C) 
the Bank has entered into an agreement of even date herewith with 
Tianjin (the Project Agreement), specifying the terms of Tianjin’s participation in the 
implementation of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
- 2 -
(a) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by:  
 
(i) 
the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to 
another location; or  
 
(ii) 
the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
person;  
 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons; 
(b) 
“Environmental Action Plan” and “EAP” means, collectively, the 
environmental action plans to be prepared and adopted by Tianjin in respect of Parts D, E, 
F.2 and H of the Project, in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan (as 
hereinafter defined) and the provisions of paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, which set out the environmental protection measures in respect of said Parts of 
the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank;  
(c) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan dated February 2003, 
and duly adopted by Tianjin, and referred to in paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of 
the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” means each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of the Project Agreement; 
(e) 
“PMOs” means the Project management offices referred to in paragraph 
1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(f) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” mean, the Resettlement Action 
Plan dated January 25, 2003 prepared by Tianjin for Parts A, B, C, D and G of the Project 
and referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out 
the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as said plan may be revised from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank;  
- 3 -
(g) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Policy Framework for 
Resettlement and Land Acquisition, dated November 2002, prepared by Tianjin for Parts 
E, F and H of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, which sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of 
resettlement action plans whenever required during the implementation of said Parts of 
the Project, as said Policy Framework may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(h) 
“TDC” means Tianjin’s Drainage Company, a corporate entity 
established by Tianjin and responsible for the management and operation of Tianjin’s 
drainage and sewerage systems, and any successor thereto; 
(i) 
“Tianjin” means the Borrower’s Tianjin Municipality, and any successor 
thereto; 
(j) 
“TCMC” means Tianjin’s Construction and Management Commission, 
and any successor thereto; 
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(l) 
“Supplemental Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from 
Tianjin to the Bank setting forth the monitoring and evaluation indicators for the Project; 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
- 4 -
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency 
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
- 5 -
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Tianjin to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Tianjin therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Tianjin to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Tianjin  
on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or of payment out of the Special Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the Loan.  
- 6 -
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iv) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Tianjin  pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained, 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
- 7 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as possible, but in any case not later 
than six (6)  months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Tianjin shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Tianjin will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
- 8 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that consultants have been engaged to undertake the 
sewerage sector study in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 of 
the Project Agreement. 
Section 6.02. 
The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Tianjin, and is legally binding upon Tianjin in accordance with 
its terms 
Section 6.03. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN 
 
22486 MFPRC CN 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
Beijing  
 
- 9 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zou Jiayi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
       Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
            50% 
 
(a) under Part D of the Project 
17,000,000 
 
(b) under Part E of the Project 
10,400,000 
 
(c) under Part F.2 of the Project 
7,400,000 
 
(d) under Part H of the Project 
6,300,000 
 
(e) under other Parts of the Project 
51,000,000 
 
(2) Goods 
 
(a) under Part E of the Project 
9,500,000 
100% of foreign 
(b) under other Parts of the Project 
32,500,000 
       expenditures, 100% 
of local           
expenditures (ex-             
factory cost) and 
 
75% of local  
 
expenditures for  
 
other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(3) Consultants’ services and 
4,400,000 
             91% 
 
Training 
 
(4) Front-end fee 
1,500,000 
      Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
10,000,000 
 
TOTAL 
150,000,000
- 11 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
(b) 
The term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $15,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1)(e), (2)(b), and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within twelve months 
before that date but after August 31, 2002;  
(b) 
expenditures under Category 1(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule, until the Bank shall have received satisfactory evidence that an EAP has 
been adopted by Tianjin with respect to Part D of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(c)  
expenditures under Categories 1(b) and 2(a) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the Bank shall have received satisfactory evidence 
that: (i) a satisfactory feasibility study on municipal wastewater management has been 
conducted under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) written undertaking by 
large sewerage service users to pay required fees has been made; (iii) the suburban 
sewerage unit’s PMO referred to in paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, has been created and staffed; and (iv) an EAP and an RAP have been adopted 
by Tianjin with respect to Part E of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3(b) and 2(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(d) 
expenditures under Category (1)(c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule, until the Bank shall have received satisfactory evidence that: (i) an EAP 
and a RAP have been adopted by Tianjin with respect to Part F.2 of the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3(b) and 2(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; and (ii) an engineering design of the interchange has been conducted based 
on a feasibility study prepared under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and 
- 12 -
(e) 
expenditures under Category (1)(d) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule until the Bank shall have received satisfactory evidence that: (i) an EAP 
and an RAP have been adopted by Tianjin with respect to Part H of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3(b) and 2(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; and (ii) traffic management measures have been adopted based on a 
feasibility study prepared under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$5,000,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts (i) with firms, costing less than 
$300,000 equivalent each, and (ii) with individuals, costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; and (d) training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist Tianjin in enhancing the efficiency and 
equity of wastewater management and transportation systems aimed at the sustainable 
development of Tianjin.   
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
PART A:
Storm Water and Wastewater Collection
Construction, rehabilitation, expansion and operation of stormwater and 
wastewater networks, including pumping stations, in the areas of Fukangnanlu, Beicang 
and Najiaowai in Tianjin.
PART B:
Shuanglin Wastewater Treatment Plant
Construction and operation of a wastewater treatment plant with capacity of 
about 200,000 m3 a day in the area of Shuanglin, and associated transmission sewers.  
PART C:
Urban Wastewater Reuse
Construction and operation of water reclamation plants and distribution networks 
attached to the Dongjiao and Shuanglin wastewater treatment plants. 
PART D:
Dagu Sewage Canal Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of cross-sections, bridges, culverts and three pump stations of the 
Dagu canal and its associated tributaries, and dredging and disposal of their sediment. 
PART E:
Suburban Sewerage
Creation of municipal wastewater collection and treatment systems in about two 
selected towns of Tianjin. 
PART F:
Urban Road Infrastructure
1. 
Construction of a road interchange at the intersection of Jinzhonghe  Avenue and 
the Middle Ring Road; 
2. 
Construction of a road interchange at the intersection of Dagunanlu and the 
Middle Ring Road. 
- 14 -
3. 
Construction of road traffic engineering improvements on selected locations 
along the Inner Ring Road and the Middle Ring Road. 
PART G:
Area Traffic Control and Traffic Management
Extension of the existing area traffic control system to about 300 new road 
intersections. 
PART H:
Bus Priority Corridors
Design and implementation of engineering and traffic management measures on 
selected bus corridors, including bus ways and traffic engineering measures, to increase 
the efficiency of bus operations.  
 
PART I:
Institutional Development
Provision of technical assistance and training to the relevant agencies of Tianjin  
to support: (a) the development of an information management system for urban 
infrastructure; (b) the reform and development of sewerage institutions; (c) the design 
and implementation of an institutional arrangement for comprehensive urban transport 
planning and management; (d) the improvement of the traffic forecast model; and (e) the 
restructuring of bus routes within Tianjin. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
January 15, 2009 
 
 
 
4,320,000 
July 15, 2009 
 
 
 
 
4,365,000 
January 15, 2010 
 
 
 
4,410,000 
July 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
4,450,000 
January 15, 2011 
 
 
 
4,495,000 
July 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
4,540,000 
January 15, 2012 
 
 
 
4,585,000 
July 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
4,630,000 
January 15, 2013 
 
 
 
4,675,000 
July 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
4,720,000 
January 15, 2014 
 
 
 
4,765,000 
July 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
4,815,000 
January 15, 2015 
 
 
 
4,860,000 
July 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
4,910,000 
January 15, 2016 
 
 
 
4,960,000 
July 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
5,005,000 
January 15, 2017 
 
 
 
5,055,000 
July 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
5,105,000 
January 15, 2018 
 
 
 
5,155,000 
July 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
5,205,000 
January 15, 2019 
 
 
 
5,260,000 
July 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
5,310,000 
January 15, 2020 
 
 
 
5,360,000 
July 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
5,415,000 
January 15, 2021 
 
 
 
5,470,000 
July 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
5,520,000 
January 15, 2022 
 
 
 
5,575,000 
July 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
5,630,000 
January 15, 2023 
 
 
 
5,685,000 
July 15, 2023 
  
5,750,000 
_________________ 
 
*The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.  
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $8,500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $4,500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account  plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
- 17 -
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
- 18 -
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.    
 
