CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7180-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Finance Development Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 23, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7180-ME 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 2003, between the UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (the Borrower) represented by its signatory on page 12 of this Agreement and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated May 9, 
2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support the 
liquidation of the Banrural System (as hereinafter defined) and the creation of Financiera 
(as hereinafter defined) (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“ ‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
- 2 -
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Auditor” means the external financial auditor to be appointed by the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Public Administration (Secretaría de la Función Pública) 
previously denominated SECODAM (Secretaría de la Controlaría y Desarrollo 
Administrativo); 
 
(b) 
“Banrural System” means the Borrower’s rural banking system 
conformed by Banco Nacional de Crédito Rural, S.N.C., Banco de Crédito Rural del 
Centro, S.N.C., Banco de Crédito Rural del Centro Norte, S.N.C., Banco de Crédito 
Rural del Centro Sur, S.N.C., Banco de Crédito Rural del Golfo, S.N.C., Banco de 
- 3 -
Crédito Rural del Istmo, S.N.C., Banco de Crédito Rural del Noreste, S.N.C., Banco de 
Crédito Rural del Noroeste, S.N.C., Banco de Crédito Rural del Norte, S.N.C., Banco de 
Crédito Rural de Occidente, S.N.C., Banco de Crédito Rural del Pacífico Norte, S.N.C.,  
Banco de Crédito Rural del Pacífico Sur, S.N.C. and Banco de Crédito Rural 
Pensinsular, S.N.C., as regulated by the Borrower’s law (Ley Orgánica del Sistema 
Banrural) published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on January 13, 1986 and in effect 
until June 30, 2003 (abrogated by Financiera Law); 
 
(c) 
“CETES” means Certificados de la Federación, the Borrower’s bonds 
with a maturity of 28 days; 
 
(d) 
“CNBV” means Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, the 
Borrower’s banking regulatory and supervisory agency established and operating 
pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s law (Ley de la Comisión Nacional Bancaria 
y de Valores), published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 28, 1995, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement, and any successor or successors thereto 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(e) 
“CPI” means the Borrower’s consumer price index as determined by the 
Borrower’s central bank; 
 
(f) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(g) 
“Financiera” means Financiera Rural, the Borrower’s rural finance 
decentralized entity, with separate legal personality, as created and regulated by the 
Financiera Law, and any successor or successors thereto satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(h) 
“Financiera Law” means  the Borrower’s law (Ley Orgánica de la 
Financiera Rural)  passed by the Borrower’s Congress on December 13, 2002 and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 26, 2002; 
 
(i) 
“NAFIN” means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Mexican development 
bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan; 
 
(j) 
“NAFIN Contract” means the contract referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Net Income” means the interest revenue on Financiera’s loan portfolio 
minus the interest expenses of funding that portfolio (which expenses should be at least 
equal to CPI), minus Financiera’s operating expenses, minus provisions on Financiera’s 
loan portfolio (which provisions should be consistent with CNBV regulations) plus the 
net interest income (CETES less CPI) on Financiera’s investment account plus transfers 
and subsidies received under any concept by Financiera;
- 4 -
(l) 
“Second Tranche Release Date” means the date on which the Bank 
notifies the Borrower that withdrawals may be made from the Loan Account by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“SHCP” means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito 
Público (Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit; and  
(n) 
“Third Tranche Release Date” means the date on which the Bank notifies 
the Borrower that withdrawals may be made from the Loan Account by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (f) of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred five 
million sixty thousand Dollars ($505,060,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $500,009,400 from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in 
Dollars in the Borrower’s Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
- 5 -
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; and 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i) and (ii) 
above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
amount of $205,050,600, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) 
above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
(f) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
amount of $355,050,600, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
- 6 -
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) 
above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
- 7 -
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full 
on May 15, 2013. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10. The Director de Financiamientos Internacionales of NAFIN, and 
any person whom he or she shall designate in writing, are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 8 -
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program (including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement). 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall cause NAFIN to: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract 
(Contrato de Mandato) with NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
(i) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to 
represent the Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of 
submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form 
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to 
the Borrower of Loan proceeds, agrees to maintain and operate 
the Deposit Account in compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement and agrees to ensure that the obligations set forth in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement are complied with; and 
(ii) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SHCP, the Borrower shall 
cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN is able to 
comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section. 
- 9 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the NAFIN Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the NAFIN Contract.  In 
case of any conflict between the terms of the NAFIN Contract and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and 
(b) 
the Financiera Law or any provision thereof shall be amended, 
suspended, abrogated (in an expressed or implied fashion), waived or not enforced in 
such a manner so as to affect adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Program. 
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are  specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: (a) the NAFIN Contract has been entered into by the Borrower and 
NAFIN; and (b) Financiera has provided a policy document, satisfactory to the Bank, 
establishing interest rate guidelines approved by Financiera’s board that will: (i) lead to 
financial sustainability (i.e. Net Income equal to, or above, zero); and (ii) encourage the 
development of private financial intermediaries. 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
- 10 -
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and 
NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel 
acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the NAFIN Contract has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and NAFIN in accordance with the NAFIN Contract’s 
terms. 
 
Section 5.03. The date December 22, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.11 of this Agreement, the Titular 
de la Unidad de Crédito Público of the Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
Palacio Nacional (piso 3), oficina 3010 
Colonia Centro 
06000 México, D.F. 
México 
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
1777313-SHOCME 
 
011-52-559-158-1156 
 
- 11 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/José Francisco Gil Díaz 
Authorized Representative 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121 
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or worked 
- 14 -
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
 
parts thereof; fuel 
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco processing 
 
machinery 
 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold, 
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or 
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including 
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Part A Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement
1. 
(a) The institutions conforming the Banrural System have ceased to operate as 
banking institutions; (b) the licenses to operate as banking institutions of the institutions 
conforming the Banrural System have been revoked by SHCP; (c) the remaining assets of 
the institutions conforming the Banrural System have been transferred to Financiera or, 
directly or indirectly, to a liquidating agency; and (d) the deposit accounts opened in the 
institutions conforming the Banrural System have been closed or transferred to one or 
more institutions authorized by CNBV and/or SHCP to operate as financial institutions. 
 
2. 
Financiera has provided to the Bank a strategic plan approved by Financiera’s 
board which: (a) provides an empirical analysis identifying Financiera’s target markets, 
clients (including their risk profile) and distribution systems and products to reach said 
clients; (b) directs Financiera’s second-tier lending activities, including: (i) a time frame 
for building a second-tier lending business; (ii) the organizational structure for 
conducting second-tier operations (including procedures to reduce conflict of interest 
between first and second-tier activities); (iii) the eligibility criteria for potential financial 
intermediaries; and (iv) the basis for a technical assistance program to strengthen new 
rural financial intermediaries; and (c) provides for the establishment of a management 
information system and financial control system to monitor the activities of Financiera.
3. 
Financiera: (a) has submitted to the Bank manuals, approved by Financiera’s 
board, including; (i) norms, policies, and procedures to provide loans; and (ii) recovery 
procedures for non-performing loans; and (b) has tested and implemented credit scoring 
models to determine the eligibility to receive loans from Financiera.
4. 
The Auditor has certified that Financiera, as of six weeks before the Second 
Tranche Release Date, complies with CNBV’s prudential regulations, including norms 
for risk classification and provisioning of loan portfolio. 
 
5. 
The subsidies and transfers received by Financera under any concept have been 
clearly declared and identified in each report submitted to the Borrower’s Congress (up to 
six weeks before the Second Tranche Release) under Article 48 paragraphs I, II and II of 
the Financiera Law. 
- 16 -
Part B Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (f) of this Agreement
1. 
The Auditor has certified that, for any consecutive six month period within nine 
months preceding the Third Tranche Release, Financiera has had a Net Income equal to, 
or above, zero.   
 
2. 
The subsidies and transfers received by Financera under any concept have been 
clearly declared and identified in each report submitted to the Borrower’s Congress (up to 
six weeks before the Third Tranche Release) under Article 48 paragraphs I, II and II of 
the Financiera Law.   
 
3. 
Financiera has submitted to the Bank detailed cost accounting figures, including 
the actual cost of Financiera’s lending and non-lending operations as of six weeks before 
the Third Tranche Release Date. 
 
4. 
The Auditor has certified that, as of six weeks before the Third Tranche Release 
Date, the manuals referred under paragraph 3 of Part A above are being applied on a 
consistent basis in accordance with their terms. 
 
5. 
The Auditor has certified that, as of six weeks before the Third Tranche Release 
Date, Financiera complies with CNBV’s prudential regulations, including norms for risk 
classification and provisioning of loan portfolio. 
 
6. 
The management information system referred under Part A.2 (c) above is being 
implemented in accordance with the Strategic Plan referred under said Part A.2 above. 
 
