CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7158 BUL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 21, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7158 BUL 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 21, 2003 between REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
December 20, 2002: (i) describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to achieve and sustain structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy during the period 
of 2002-2005 (hereinafter called the Program) which Program consists of actions and 
policies that have already been taken and adopted, in a satisfactory manner, by the 
Borrower as described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (hereinafter called the First Phase 
of the Program) as well as actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and 
adopt prior to the subsequent phases of the Program; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the Loan as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the First Phase of the Program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made”; 
- 2 -
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount from the Loan Account shall be made in 
the Loan Currency of such amount.  The Bank, at the request and acting 
as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency 
withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency or currencies of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
part of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance 
by 
the 
Borrower 
and 
the 
Bank 
of 
their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and  9.08. 
 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Anti-Corruption Strategy” means the Borrower’s anti-corruption 
strategy approved by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers’ Decision No. 671, dated 
October 1, 2001; 
 
(b) 
“Biochim” means Targovska Banka Biochim AD, a bank, established in 
accordance with the laws of the Borrower and registered in the Commercial Companies 
Register, Volume 13, dossier No. 691; 
 
- 3 -
(c) 
“Bulgarian Telecommunications Company PLC” or “BTC” means 
Bulgarska Telekomunikatsionna Kompania EAD (VTS), a joint stock company, 
established and registered (Unified Company Number (EFN) 2192342413) in accordance 
with the laws of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;  
 
(e) 
“DZI” means DZI PLC, a joint stock company, established and 
registered (Unified Company Number (EFN) 2197155067) in accordance with the laws 
of the Borrower; 
 
(f) 
“Environment Protection Law” means the Borrower’s law adopted on 
September 25, 2002 (State Gazette No. 91 of September 25, 2002) and amended on 
October 18, 2002 (State Gazette No. 98 of October 18, 2002); 
(g) 
“Program and Action Plan for Judicial Reform” means the program 
approved by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers’ Decision No. 671 of October 1, 2001, 
and Council of Ministers’ Decision No. 152 of March 20, 2002; and 
 
(h) 
“Strategy for State Administration Modernization” means the document 
approved by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers’ Decision No. 465 of July 9, 2002. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
fifty-one million and two hundred thousand Euro (�151,200,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in support of the First Phase of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Bulgarian National 
Bank, a deposit account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
- 4 -
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i)  
eighty-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the  
 
date on which such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the  
 
provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not including 
 
the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii)  
seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
- 5 -
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 6 -
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective date 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
- 7 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
102 Rakovski Street 
 
Sofia, 1040 
 
Republic of Bulgaria 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
22727  
 
(359)2-9806863 
 
Sofia 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
 
By   /s/  Milen Velchev 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By   /s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 
Director  
South Central Europe Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112            
 - 
 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121            
- 
 
 
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122       
 - 
 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether  
 
or not containing tobacco substitutes) 
 
525         
  - 
 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
 
667 
 
   - 
        
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked or worked 
 
718          
718.7  
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;  
 
fuel elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
 
728 
 
728.43  
 
Tobacco processing machinery 
 
897          
897.3  
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except watches and watch 
 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including set gems) 
- 10 -
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
971             
- 
 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
March 15, 2009 
6% 
 
September 15, 2009 
6% 
 
March 15, 2010 
6% 
 
September 15, 2010 
6% 
 
March 15, 2011 
6% 
 
September 15, 2011 
6% 
 
March 15, 2012 
6% 
 
September 15, 2012 
    6.66% 
 
March 15, 2013 
0% 
 
September 15, 2013 
0% 
 
March 15, 2014 
6% 
 
September 15, 2014 
6% 
 
March 15, 2015 
0% 
 
September 15, 2015 
0% 
 
March 15, 2016 
6% 
 
September 15, 2016 
     6.66% 
 
March 15, 2017 
     6.66% 
 
September 15, 2017                                                                   6.66% 
 
 
March 15, 2018 
     6.66% 
 
September 15, 2018 
     6.70%
TOTAL                                                                          
100% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
- 12 -
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
Macroeconomic Framework
1. 
The Borrower has implemented prudent macroeconomic policy centered on the 
currency board arrangement and contributing to solid growth performance, and has 
maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with the core objectives 
of the Program, including: (a) an estimated fiscal deficit of 0.7 percent of the Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP) for calendar year 2002; (b) satisfactory income policy; (c) a 12-
month inflation rate, as of November 2002, of 3.2 percent; (d) an estimated external 
current account deficit of less than 5.0 percent of GDP in calendar year 2002; and  
(e) public debt to GDP of 60.6 percent, as of November 30, 2002.  
 
 
Structural Reforms
2. 
The Borrower has completed privatization of Biochim and DZI. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has implemented an increase of household electricity prices by 
twenty (20) percent commencing from the second calendar semester of the year 2002, 
and has approved a timetable for the adjustment of household electricity prices to cost 
recovery levels. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has approved and implemented a privatization strategy for BTC, 
including elimination of the exclusive rights of BTC in the telecommunications services 
market. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has enacted the Environment Protection Law, in accordance with 
the European Union environmental standards.
Business Environment
6. 
The Borrower has submitted to the Parliament a new Law on Administrative 
Regulation and Administrative Control on Economic Activities, agreed with the Bank.  
 
7. 
The Borrower has submitted to the Parliament amendments to Part IV of the 
Commercial Code, simplifying the insolvency procedures, establishing shorter and 
binding deadlines for insolvency process and providing more efficient protection of 
creditors’ rights. 
 
- 14 -
Improving Governance
8. 
The Borrower has approved a Strategy for State Administration Modernization 
and a program for its implementation, agreed with the Bank. 
 
9. 
The Borrower has approved a Program and Action Plan for Judicial Reform, 
including a component on the National Anti-Corruption Strategy for the judiciary. 
 
10. 
The Borrower has approved an Anti-Corruption Strategy and a program for its 
implementation, agreed with the Bank. 
 
Social Protection
11. 
The Borrower has approved an adjusted energy subsidy program aimed at 
assisting poor families adversely affected by energy tariff increases. 
 
