CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7170-JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Education Reform for Knowledge Economy I Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 23, 2003 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7170 -JO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 2003, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM 
OF 
JORDAN 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a Statement of Sectoral Policy on 
February 5, 2003 describing the main features of the Borrower’s education reform 
program (the Program), setting out certain measures required to carry out the Program 
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
 
(C)  
the Borrower intends to contract from the United States Agency for 
International Development, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the 
Canadian International Development Agency, the British Department for International 
Development, the European Investment Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Japan 
International Cooperation Agency and Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) 
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the Participating Partners), loans and grants in the 
total amount equivalent to one hundred and twenty million dollars ($120,000,000) to 
assist in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each of the Participating Partners;  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
- 2 -
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Work Plan” means the Annual Work Plan referred to in 
paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time in agreement with the Bank; 
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one Category collectively; 
 
(c) 
“DCU” means the Development Coordination Unit of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Education referred to in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“ECE” means Early Childhood Education; 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s environmental  
management plan acceptable to the Bank as furnished to the Bank on March 20, 2003, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means a twelve-month period beginning on January 1 in 
any year and ending on December 31 of the same year; 
 
(h) 
“ICT” means Information and Communication Technology; 
 
(i) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(j) 
“NCHRD” means the National Center for Human Resources 
Development established and operating under the Borrower’s Law of Higher Council for 
Science and Technology No. 30 of 1987; 
 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual prepared by the 
Borrower and furnished to the Bank on February 24, 2003, satisfactory to the Bank as the 
same may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank, and such term 
includes an implementation plan for the entire duration of the Project, the Annual Work 
Plan for the first year of the project, and any schedules to the Operational Manual; 
 
(l) 
“Participating Partners” means the Participating Partners referred to in 
Recital C of the preamble to this Agreement who shall contribute or have contributed 
funds or technical advisory services to the Program; 
 
- 3 -
(m) 
“PPC” means the Policy and Priorities Committee referred to in 
paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred and 
twenty million United States Dollars (US$120,000,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Jordan on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
- 4 -
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion  
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOE with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational, economic, 
financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
- 5 -
this Agreement, the Operational Manual, the Annual Work Plan and the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. 
No expenditures for works shall be eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, unless: (a) the Borrower shall have first included in the design, 
construction and implementation of works under Parts C and D.3 of the Project, activities 
to mitigate negative environmental impacts in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Plan; and (b) the activities to be financed do not involve land acquisition or 
involuntary resettlement of the local population and/or businesses. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
- 6 -
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
- 7 -
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  
any grant or loan made to the Borrower by any 
Participating Partner for the financing of the Program 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or 
 
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the Program are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement. 
 
- 8 -
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
The Ministry of Planning 
P.O. Box 555 
Amman 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
21319 NPC JO  
 
 
9626-4649 341 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
- 9 -
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By 
/s/ 
Dr. Baseem I. Awadallah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ 
Hasan Tuluy 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1  
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
US Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Works 
48,000,000 
65% 
 
(2) 
Goods and Equipment 
55,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
 
100 % of local  
 
expenditures 
 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
7,000,000 
90% of local expen- 
 
services, workshops 
 
ditures for services 
 
and training 
 
of consulting firms 
  
 
domiciled within 
 
the territory of 
 
the Borrower, 95% of  
 
local expenditures for  
 
services of individual  
 
consultants domiciled  
 
within the territory  
 
of the Borrower,  
 
and 90% of foreign 
 
expenditures for  
 
services of consultant  
 
firms and individuals  
 
(4) 
Operating Costs 
1,200,000 
90% of all expenditures  
 
up to December 31,  
 
2004, and 75% of all  
 
expenditures thereafter 
- 11 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
US Dollars)
to be financed
(5) 
Front-end fee 
1,200,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
(6)  
Unallocated 
7,600,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 
120,000,000 
 
========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries, office supplies, 
and communication charges, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil 
service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 20, 2003. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts costing 
less than $4,000,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$350,000 equivalent each; (iii) services by consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent each; (iv) services by individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) Operating Costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the quality, 
relevance and efficiency of its early childhood, basic and secondary school education 
systems, so as to produce graduates with the skills necessary for the knowledge economy. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Reorientation of Education Policy Objectives and Strategies
1. 
Redefining the Borrower’s vision and strategy for education, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of consultations at local and 
national levels. 
 
2. 
Improving governance, management and decision making processes within the 
education system through the carrying out of reviews of the pertinent regulatory, 
legislative and procedural frameworks and the preparation of an organizational 
development model. 
 
3. 
Development and implementation of an integrated education decision support 
system for the enhancement of the dissemination of information to support the education 
decision-making process through the provision of technical advisory services, the 
carrying out of training of MOE staff and the acquisition of equipment. 
 
4. 
Strengthening the capacity of NCHRD to monitor and evaluate progress in 
educational reform through the carrying out of assessments, research and studies, and the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
 
5. 
(a) Provision of technical advisory services and goods for the strengthening of 
capacity within DCU and PPC to coordinate and manage educational reform activities; 
and  
 
(b) Development and carrying out of innovative approaches to management, 
curriculum development and teacher training through the provision of equipment and 
technical advisory services. 
 
Part B:
Transformation of Education Programs and Practices for the Knowledge 
Economy
1. 
Development of a framework for the design and development of new curriculum 
and learning assessments, and for strengthening the capacity of MOE’s staff to manage 
- 13 -
the curriculum development and learning assessment processes, through the carrying out 
of training and the provision of goods and technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Assessment, modification and design of professional development, incentive and 
ranking systems of MOE’s employees, and carrying out of training and professional 
development activities to enhance effective learning processes in line with the 
educational reforms.  
 
3. 
Installation, development and management of equipment and supplies to 
facilitate effective learning, including computer software and hardware, learning 
materials and ICT infrastructure. 
 
Part C:
Provision of Quality Physical Learning Environments
1. 
Carrying out a program for the construction and equipping of replacement 
buildings for schools, the construction and equipping of extensions for existing schools, 
and the rehabilitation of existing school facilities to ensure their efficient use.  
 
2. 
Constructing and equipping computer and general science laboratories in schools. 
 
Part D:
Promotion of Readiness for Learning Through Early Childhood 
Education
1. 
Building capacity within MOE and other stakeholder institutions for the 
development of a curriculum framework for the four-to-six year age group, updating and 
revision of guidelines for licensing of kindergartens and adoption of a survey instrument 
to monitor child readiness at school entry, through the provision of training, technical 
advisory services and acquisition of equipment. 
 
2. 
Designing, developing and carrying out of an in-service training program for 
ECE teachers, teacher trainers and administrators/principals, and upgrading teacher 
qualification programs based on the new ECE curriculum framework. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of a program for the construction and equipping of kindergarten 
facilities in basic education schools. 
 
4. 
Promotion of parent and community participation in ECE through the 
establishment of early child development and parenting centers for the provision of  early  
child development services, parent education and outreach activities to families living in 
remote areas. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 1 and October 1 
 
Beginning October 1, 2008 through October 1, 2019 
4.17% 
 
On April 1, 2020 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
- 15 -
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(i) 
Works estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and 
- 17 -
(ii) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $18,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $350,000 or more; and (ii) each of the first two contracts for goods and for 
works regardless of the contract’s value, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with shopping procedures and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of the first two (2) contracts with any supplier under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
- 18 -
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services for studies, technical assistance and training under Parts A, 
B and D of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Quality-based Selection
Services for specialized studies, technical assistance and training under Parts A, 
B and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Least-cost Selection
Services for the design and construction supervision of schools under Part C and 
D.3 of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
- 19 -
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for specialized technical assistance and training under Parts A, B and D 
of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services for specialized short-term technical assistance and training under Parts 
A, B and D of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (b) specialized technical assistance under Parts A, B and D of 
the Project may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the 
Bank. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, terms of reference, short lists and applicable selection 
criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to 
the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated 
every three (3) months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time 
to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for: 
(i) studies, technical assistance and training services estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more; and (ii) the first two contracts for services procured under the 
procedures described in paragraphs C.1 and C.2 of this Section II, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
- 20 -
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
Operational Manual and Annual Work Plan
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Operational Manual is applied and 
followed at all times in the implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Operational Manual if in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
(b) 
In addition to the Operational Manual, the Borrower shall, no later than 
November 1 of each year during the implementation of the Program beginning on 
November 1, 2003, prepare and submit to the Bank for comments, and thereafter adopt, 
an Annual Work Plan giving details of all implementation activities, budgets and 
monitoring and supervision activities to be carried out by the Borrower during  the 
following year of the Program.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the Annual Work Plan in so far as it relates to 
the Project, if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
 
2. 
Institutional Arrangements
(a) 
The Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project maintain PPC, which shall be headed by the Minister of Education and composed 
of representatives of education reform stakeholders, to oversee the development and 
implementation of the Program, define national priorities and guide the strategic 
orientation of all educational reform efforts in the Borrower’s territory.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall vest responsibility for implementing the Project with 
MOE.  
 
(c) 
For purposes of assisting MOE in the implementation of the Project and 
in order to ensure the proper coordination of the execution of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain the Development Coordination Unit with adequate levels of staffing and 
resources for carrying out the Project.  More specifically, the DCU shall be responsible 
for the daily management of the Project, including the coordination of the procurement 
and financial management processes, the preparation of annual progress reports, 
developing and submitting Annual Work Plans to the Bank, coordinating the education 
reform and general Project implementation activities and other Project related tasks. 
 
- 22 -
(d) 
The Borrower shall vest responsibility for the monitoring and evaluation 
activities of the Project with NCHRD.  NCHRD shall also be responsible for carrying out 
research studies on the educational reform activities under Part A.4 of the Project.  In the 
carrying out of its functions in relation to the Project, NCHRD shall coordinate with 
DCU. 
 
3. 
Reports and Reviews
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
Not later than December 31 of each year,  undertake, in conjunction with 
the Bank, an annual review of the Project or, in the case of the review to be undertaken 
not later than June 30, 2005, a midterm review, during which they shall exchange views 
generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project, and the performance by the 
Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, including the progress achieved 
by the Borrower under the Program, having regard to the monitoring indicators agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
(c) 
Not later than one (1) month prior to each review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower 
shall agree, on the progress and status of the Project and the Program, and giving details, in 
particular, of the various matters to be discussed at each such review. 
 
(d) 
Following each review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project. 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $8,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall  
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall  
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
- 24 -
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
- 25 -
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance monitoring indicators for the Project are: 
 
1. 
A redefined vision and integrated education strategy shall have been developed, 
and policies and regulations aligned with the new vision and strategy shall have been 
revised, by the Closing Date; 
 
2. 
Average standardized score of Jordanian students on international assessments in 
mathematics and the sciences shall have improved by the Closing Date; 
 
3. 
At least 80% of the basic and secondary school students shall have access to safe 
and adequate basic and secondary education school facilities by the Closing Date;  
 
4. 
At least 70% of basic and secondary school students shall be using on-line 
learning portals by the Closing Date; and 
 
5. 
The gross enrollment rate in the second level of kindergarten shall have increased 
to 51% by the Closing Date.
 
