CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4694 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(St. Petersburg Economic Development Loan) 
 
between 
‘
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 4, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4694 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 2004, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the City of St. Petersburg  
(St. Petersburg) a letter dated February 11, 2003, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to strengthen and reform the economy of St. Petersburg 
(the Program), declaring St. Petersburg’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B)  
by letter dated April 22, 2003, the Borrower has confirmed its approval 
of the Program and expressed its commitment to facilitate St. Petersburg’s 
implementation of the Program, during the execution thereof, by lending to and for use 
by St. Petersburg funds in local currency in amounts equivalent to the Loan amounts 
disbursed by the Bank in support of the Program, and by undertaking the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which is related to the 
implementation of the Program; 
(C)  
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, and has 
requested assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the Program and the Project, upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
- 2 -
(a)   
In Section 2.01, a new paragraph (22) is added to read: “‘Program’ 
means the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement.”; 
(b)   
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Borrower and the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account: (a) with respect to 
expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (7) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement shall be made in the respective currencies in which 
the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan have been paid or are 
payable; provided, however, that withdrawals in respect of expenditures in the currency 
of the Borrower shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably select; and (b) under Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement shall be made in the currency of the Deposit Account 
specified in Section 2.03 (b) of the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is renumbered as Section 5.01 (a) and the following new 
sub-section (b) is added to read:  
“(b) 
The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated to Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Loan Agreement from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is modified to read: “Applications for 
withdrawals from Categories (1) through (5) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, including the documentation required pursuant to this 
Article, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures of the Project.” 
(e)  
Section 9.05 is modified to read: “Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods, works, services, and operating costs, financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) through (5) in the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement to be used exclusively for the 
purposes of the Project.” 
(f)   
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read: 
“(c)  
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program 
and Project, their cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from them, the 
- 3 -
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under 
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, represented by MOF and MOCMC, and FISP pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Annual work program” means an annual program of actions to be 
undertaken by the Borrower with respect to Project implementation; 
(c) 
“CIF” means the Cultural Investment Facility, a special fund established 
by the Borrower for the purpose of making CIF Grants to recipient cultural institutions 
under Part B of the Project, to be administered by FISP under the supervision of the 
Interministerial Grant Evaluation Committee in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Operational Manual; 
(d) 
“CIF Grants” means grants made out of the Cultural Investment Facility 
to recipient cultural institutions for CIF Sub-projects under Part B of the Project; 
(e) 
“CIF Sub-project” means a specific investment in or rehabilitation of, a 
cultural institution in, or in the vicinity of St. Petersburg, which has been prepared and 
selected by FISP in accordance with the Project Operational Manual for the purposes of 
Part B of the Project; 
 
(f) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 5.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“FISP” means St. Petersburg Foundation for Investment Projects, a non-
commercial foundation established pursuant to Resolution of the Governor of  
St. Petersburg No. 331-p, dated October 28, 1996, and registered by the Registration 
Chamber of St. Petersburg, under Certificate of Registration No. 43863,  dated March 4, 
1997, which is the entity authorized to implement the Project pursuant to the Agency 
Agreement; 
- 4 -
(i) 
“Interministerial Grant Evaluation Committee” means the Borrower’s 
committee for the evaluation of applications for CIF Grants under Part B of the Project to 
be established pursuant to Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“MOCMC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Culture and Mass 
Communication; 
(k) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(l) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual setting forth procedures 
and rules related to Project implementation, to be adopted pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;  
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Strategic Plan” means the plan describing the plans and policies relating 
to long-term development of St. Petersburg City infrastructure and services, adopted by 
the General Council for the Strategic Plan of St. Petersburg on December 1, 1997;  
(p) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into by MOF and St. Petersburg in conformity with the provisions of Section 4.02 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;  
(q) 
“Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and 
(r) 
“St. Petersburg Working Group” means a Group established for the 
purposes of the Program pursuant to the Order No. 237-p of the Governor of St. 
Petersburg of February 23, 2001, which is chaired by the Governor for St. Petersburg, 
and comprising representatives of the Committees of Construction, Economic 
Development, Finance, and Property of the City of St. Petersburg. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
Implementation Entity shall be deemed as a reference to FISP. 
- 5 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred sixty-one million one hundred thousand dollars  ($161,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) through (5) 
in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement may be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services and operating costs, required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) qualifying 
expenditures incurred under a CIF Sub-project which is being financed through a CIF 
Grant pursuant to Part B of the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account (the Special Account) in a bank acceptable to 
the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  (a) Subject to provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, 
and Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (6) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement from the Loan Account, in support of the Program. 
 
(b)   
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account with respect to Category (6) in the table set forth 
in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account (Deposit Account) in Dollars, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals with respect to such Category (6) shall be 
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c)   
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to Category (6) shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If at any time, the 
Bank shall have determined, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, and after an 
exchange of views with the Borrower, that any of the proceeds of such Category (6) shall 
have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, 
- 6 -
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount 
equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be credited 
to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
- 7 -
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.07, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project through MOCMC with the assistance of FISP, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices; 
- 8 -
(b) 
cause FISP to perform in accordance with the Agency Agreement all the 
obligations of FISP therein set forth; and  
(c) 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
through MOF and MOCMC, enter into an agency agreement with FISP 
(the Agency Agreement), on such terms as shall be acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include terms specifying the responsibilities of FISP in respect of coordination of Project 
activities, accounting, preparation of requests for withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
procurement, and effecting of payments out of the Special Account and make available to 
FISP, on a non-reimbursable basis, the portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
until the completion of the relevant project parts, maintain FISP, and 
ensure that it has the resources, is staffed by personnel with qualifications and under 
terms of reference, and functions at all times in accordance with procedures necessary 
and appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, consultants’ services and training required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
- 9 -
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Particular Covenants in Respect of the Program 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, or of St. Petersburg, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  The 
Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, cause  
St. Petersburg to participate in such exchanges of views with the Borrower and the Bank. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall, as allowed by 
the terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, cause St. Petersburg to furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views, and, as allowed by the terms of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, cause St. Petersburg to exchange views, with the Bank on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, cause  
St. Petersburg to assist in the preparation of the report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of 
the General Conditions, as said Section 9.07 (c) is amended pursuant to Section 1.01 (f) 
of this Agreement, and to provide all information in respect of the Program which may be 
required for the preparation of such report. 
Section 4.02. 
The Borrower shall, promptly after each disbursement of Loan 
proceeds under Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
disburse to St. Petersburg funds in local currency equivalent to the respective amounts of 
each such disbursement.  Such disbursement to St. Petersburg shall take place according 
to the terms of an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and St. Petersburg 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement), whereby the Borrower agrees 
to lend to St. Petersburg funds in local currency in amounts equivalent to the amounts of 
the Loan disbursed by the Bank. 
 
- 10 -
Section 4.03. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later  than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Financial Covenants 
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare or cause to be 
prepared, financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, and adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause FISP to: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of sources and uses of funds, statements of 
income and expenses, and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
- 11 -
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
FISP to: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
(d) 
the Borrower shall cause FISP to: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
- 12 -
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.  
Section 5.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Parts B and D of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause FISP to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both  
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing   
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances  
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project  
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the   
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar semester. 
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; 
- 13 -
(b) 
FISP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Agency 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
St. Petersburg shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and  
 
(d) 
The Agency Agreement or the Project Operational Manual, or any 
provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in 
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out 
the Project. 
 
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely: any of the events specified in  
Section 5.01, (b), (c) or (d) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period 
of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:   
 (a) 
the Agency Agreement has been entered into between the MOF, 
MOCMC and FISP; 
 
(b) 
a revised FISP charter satisfactory to the Bank shall have been adopted; 
and members of FISP’s supervisory board shall have been appointed, satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
 
(c) 
appointment of the Inter-ministerial Grant Evaluation Committee 
members; 
(d) 
the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
adopted by the FISP supervisory board; and 
 
(e) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into.  
- 14 -
Section 7.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance or authorized Deputy Minister of Finance 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
of the Russian Federation 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097 Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex:  
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
112008  
 
 
 
 
(7-095) 925-0889 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1 (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By 
/s/  Alexander Sergeevich Sokolov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Kristalina I. Georgieva 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Works under Part A 
45,860,000 
49% 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
4,730,000 
87% of individual 
 
under Parts C and D 
 
consultants; 
 
of the Project 
 
100% of eligible 
 
social charges; 
 
79% of expenditures 
 
on consulting firms 
(3) 
CIF Grants under 
 
Part B of the Project 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Goods and works 
5,130,000 
80% 
 
financed under CIF 
 
Sub-projects 
 
(b)  Consultants’  
700,000 
87% of individual 
 
services financed under 
 
consultants; 
 
CIF Sub-projects 
 
100% of eligible 
 
social charges; 
 
79% of expenditures 
 
on consulting firms 
 
(4) 
Operating costs 
3,000,000 
87% for salaries; 
 
100% for social 
 
charges;  
 
100% for training; 
 
84% of other costs 
 
- 17 -
(5) 
Training under Part C 
70,000 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(6) 
Portion of the Loan in support 
 
of the Program, referred to 
 
in Section 2.03 (a) of this 
 
 
 
 
 
Agreement 
 
(a)  Tranche I 
40,000,000 
100% 
(b) Tranche II 
60,000,000 
100% 
 
(7) 
Fee 
1,610,000 
100% 
 
TOTAL 
161,100,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental costs 
associated with the administration of the FISP, including: staff salaries, training, 
including study tours and seminars, social charges, office rent, maintenance and minor 
refurbishing of office and equipment, office equipment, furniture, materials and supplies, 
communication costs, support for information systems, translation expenses, bank 
charges, and travel and per diem costs of FISP staff directly associated with 
implementation of Project activities; and 
(d) 
the term “Training” means Project related costs and expenses related to 
study tours, seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under a goods 
or service provider’s contract, travel and per diem costs for the ministries, 
administrations, and other relevant bodies on the federal and/or regional levels involved 
in the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
- 18 -
$1,200,000 may be made in respect of Category (4) (Operating Costs) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made before that date but 
after June 1, 2003. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; (d) all training; and (e) all operating 
costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: 
(a) 
no withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account under  
Category (6) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: 
(i) 
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower and  
St. Petersburg is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
St. Petersburg has achieved progress satisfactory to the Bank in  
 
the carrying out of the Program; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been taken. 
(b) 
no withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account under  
Category (6) (b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that: 
(i) 
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower and  
St. Petersburg is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
St. Petersburg has achieved progress satisfactory to the Bank in 
the carrying out of the Program; and 
- 19 -
(iii) 
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been taken.  
6. 
(a) 
If, after the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 5 (a) above, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements of  
subparagraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii) of paragraph 5 above, or the actions taken under  
subparagraph (a) (iii) of paragraph 5 above, are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) 
days after such notice, the Borrower and St. Petersburg shall not have met the 
requirements of said subparagraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii), or taken the actions under 
subparagraph (a) (iii) of paragraph 5 above, then the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the amount of the Loan allocated to Category (6) of the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1. 
 
(b) 
If, after the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 5 (b) above, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements of subparagraphs  
(b) (i) and (b) (ii) of paragraph 5 above, or the actions taken under subparagraph (b) (iii) 
of paragraph 5 above, are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, 
the Borrower and St. Petersburg shall not have met the requirements of said 
subparagraphs (b) (i) and (b) (ii), or taken the actions under subparagraph (b) (iii) of 
paragraph 5 above, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the amount of 
the Loan allocated to Category (6) (b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule 1. 
7. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for the purposes of 
Section 2.03 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (6) 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:  
 
(a) 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are 
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall not be excluded; 
 
(b) 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
(c) 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower: 
- 20 -
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco processing 
 
machinery 
 
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
- 21 -
(d) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; 
 
(e) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
(f) 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
(g) 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank 
to remedy the situation. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to support St. Petersburg’s efforts to accelerate 
the implementation of key elements of its Strategic Plan, in particular by rehabilitation 
and restoration of certain outstanding cultural monuments under federal jurisdiction, 
enhance St. Petersburg’s prospects for sustainable economic growth, and allow it to more 
fully exploit its position as Russia’s “Window to the West,” in particular, by enabling St. 
Petersburg to take greater advantage of its unique position as one of Russia’s top centers 
of culture and the arts and create the basis for developing tourism as a key element of 
future economic growth. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:  
Part A: Rehabilitation of Cultural Assets in St. Petersburg
Repair and/or rehabilitation works for: 
 
1. 
State Hermitage Museum, consisting of repair and rehabilitation and restoration 
works in the East Wing of the General Staff Building; 
 
2. 
State Mariinsky Theatre, consisting of repair and/or replacement of internal 
utility networks in the existing building, replacement of stage machinery and 
rehabilitation of stage area, restoration of main hall, and upgrading of commercial 
services areas; 
 
3. 
State Russian Museum, consisting of rehabilitation of two inner courtyards in the 
Mikhailovsky Palace, restoration of the Winter Garden in the Marble Palace, and 
restoration of the St. George Hall and rehabilitation of two Corp-de Gardes in the 
Mikhailovsky Palace; 
 
4. 
Peter and Paul Fortress Museum, consisting of repair of drainage and other utility 
networks, water isolation of buildings, and restoration of pathways; 
 
5. 
State Shostakovich Philharmonic Academy, consisting of restoration of various 
rooms, replacement of lighting, air-conditioning, and sound systems, and repair of other 
internal utility networks; 
 
6. 
State Rimski-Korsakov Conservatory, consisting of rehabilitation and restoration 
of the English Church; 
- 23 -
7. 
Tsarskoye Selo Palace State Museum, consisting of rehabilitation and restoration 
of the Hermitage Kitchen and Turkish Baths, and restoration of bridges; and 
 
8. 
Pavlovsk Palace State Museum, consisting of restoration of the Temple of 
Friendship. 
 
Part B: Cultural Investment Facility
Provision of CIF Grants to cultural institutions in, and in the vicinity of,  
St. Petersburg for selected CIF Sub-projects involving small-scale investments and 
institutional strengthening activities. 
 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance including consulting services and staff training, 
to the State Mariinsky Theater and the State Russian Museum, with a view to improving 
the institutions’ capacity to: (i) carry out financial management including budgeting, 
accounting, and planning in accordance with international standards; and (ii) improve 
marketing and business development. 
 
Part D: Project Implementation
1. 
Provision of support to FISP consisting of incremental operating costs during 
Project implementation; 
 
2. 
Completion of design studies required for the implementation of works for the 
existing buildings of the State Mariinsky Theater and the East Wing of the General Staff 
Building of the State Hermitage Museum; and 
 
3. 
Provision of services of technical specialists for specific aspects of project 
supervision, including technical expertise in rehabilitation of historic buildings. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2009. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning October 15, 2008 
  
6,715,000 
 
through October 15, 2019 
 
On April 15, 2020 
  
6,655,000 
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Part A. Actions referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1. 
St. Petersburg has adopted measures providing for simplification of regulations 
for establishment of small and medium enterprises and streamlining of activities of 
controlling bodies of executive power and local government agencies so as to reduce 
barriers to the development of small and medium enterprises. 
 
2. 
St. Petersburg has adopted measures providing for reform of the business 
licensing regime by: (a) completing the process of bringing the St. Petersburg regulatory 
framework in line with the federal laws on licensing, including amendment to  
Order No. 89-p of the Licensing Chamber of St. Petersburg of March 30, 2001; and  
(b) preventing the St. Petersburg Licensing Chamber from subdividing licensed activities 
within the list of licensed activities. 
3. 
St. Petersburg has adopted a Law on Regulating Urban Development Activities 
in St. Petersburg. 
4. 
St. Petersburg has adopted a price schedule for prices on privatization of 
occupied land which has achieved a reduction in average prices charged for privatization 
by 25% from normative prices in effect in 2001. 
5. 
St. Petersburg implemented its program for divestiture of city-owned premises 
through competitive auction by offering at least 150 premises for sale in 2002. 
6. 
St. Petersburg has: (i) adhered to prudential limits for aggregative fiscal 
performance under City and federal legislation and budget targets for 2003; and  
(ii) adopted a financial plan for 2003-2005 satisfactory to the Bank. 
7. 
St. Petersburg has implemented measures for fiscal management reform in 2003 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
8. 
St. Petersburg has adopted regulatory measures establishing a clear legal right of 
access by independent generating enterprises to St. Petersburg’s electricity networks of 
energy suppliers.   
- 26 -
Part B. Actions referred to in paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1. 
St. Petersburg has carried out a program of reducing, through divestiture or other 
means, the overall number of City-owned or City-controlled commercial enterprises, 
including but not limited to the State Unitary Enterprises (SUEs) enumerated in the City 
Administration’s Order “On Optimizing the Number of St. Petersburg State Unitary 
Enterprises.” 
2. 
St. Petersburg has: (i) adhered to prudential limits for aggregative fiscal 
performance under City and federal legislation and budget targets for 2003; and  
(ii) adopted a financial plan for 2004-2006 satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
St. Petersburg has implemented measures for fiscal management reform in 2003 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
St. Petersburg has established a legal framework for expansion of the program of 
trust management satisfactory to the Bank. 
5. 
Inventory of City-owned buildings and premises has been completed. 
6. 
St. Petersburg has implemented a reporting system that reflects revenue losses 
from rent concessions, including concessions for premises and land rents. 
7. 
St. Petersburg has: (a) implemented legislation to: (i) eliminate, under a time-
bound schedule by the end of the Program, all City-provided fiscal and financial 
subsidies to commercial enterprises; and (ii) freeze or decrease over the duration of this 
Program the number of tax concessions (with respect to property, profit, income, sales or 
other business taxes) made to commercial enterprises; and (b) ensured that any remaining 
subsidies, subventions or tax concessions provided are on a fully competitive basis 
without any discrimination of concession recipients by the form of ownership. 
8. 
St. Petersburg has achieved, in implementation of its program of reducing the 
rent reduction coefficient for City-owned premises, a 15% decrease in estimated lost rent 
revenue year-to-year over the 2002 base line of $24 million equivalent per quarter.  
9. 
 St. Petersburg has increased average effective land rents for City-owned land 
plots by 7.5% over the 2002 base line of $40 per square meter. 
10. 
St. Petersburg has published independently audited financial accounts, developed 
in accordance with International Accounting Standards, for the year 2002, for Lenenergo, 
- 27 -
TEK, Kurotenergo, PES, St. Petersburg Elektroseti, Gorodskoye Gazovoye Khozyaistvo 
Lengaz, Fuel and Energy Complex of St. Petersburg. 
- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a) 
Prequalification 
Bidders for works under contracts estimated to cost more than $4,000,000 
equivalent shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 
2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
- 29 -
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works, which are estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $18,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines, subject to the modifications agreed with the Borrower attached as Annex 1 to 
this Schedule. 
2. 
International Shopping
Goods under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3. 
National Shopping
Goods under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract,  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Minor Works
Works under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
- 30 -
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in B and C.1 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and works to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in each of C.2, C.3 and C.4 above, 
the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures or 
contractor under  small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; and 
 (ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
- 31 -
2. 
In respect of consultants’ services to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section, the short list of consultants for 
services for contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $500,000 in the 
aggregate, may, with the agreement of the Bank, be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated as necessary during the execution 
of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Bank. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
- 32 -
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
- 33 -
Annex 1  
To 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts 
Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
Contracts for goods or works for which Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement 
allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations. In order to 
assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be 
modified as set forth in the following paragraphs. 
Eligibility
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall 
be placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those 
imposed by primary boycotts. 
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on 
requirements to joint-venture with national firms. 
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration 
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified 
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating. 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded bidders on the basis of place of registration, 
ownership, small size, ownership, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source 
of labor, material or equipment. 
5. 
Government-owned entities shall be eligible to participate in bidding for 
contracts if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate 
under commercial law and are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
Standard Bidding Documents
6. 
Until a modified version of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been 
approved for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
- 34 -
Advertising bidding opportunities; time for bid preparation
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least thirty (30) days for bid preparation and 
submission of bids (excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelf goods, standard 
specification commodities or small value works). 
8. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post-
qualification) shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents. 
9. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurement involving large or complex 
contracts shall be advertised.  
10. 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in bidding documents and only 
criteria so specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids 
by bidders which are deemed not qualified to bid shall not be considered further and shall 
be rejected.  
Bid opening
11. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be 
considered and shall be returned unopened.  
Rebidding
12. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received 
provided that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed 
capable of performing the contract.  
Bid evaluation
13. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so 
specified shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluation of 
bids for goods and works contracts.  
14. 
Bid evaluation shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be 
present during evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to 
any bidder until the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
- 35 -
15. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as 
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw 
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
16. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be 
applied. Contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive 
bidder. 
17. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior 
to contract award or signature.  
 
- 36 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Management and Implementation of the Overall Program and Various Project 
Components 
1. 
MOCMC shall be responsible for overall management and implementation of the 
Project. 
2. 
St. Petersburg shall maintain the St. Petersburg Working Group, chaired by the 
Governor of St. Petersburg, and comprising representatives of the Committees of 
Construction, Economic Development, Finance, and Property of the City of St. 
Petersburg, which shall be responsible for overall coordination of the Program, and 
ensuring timely approval of measures, actions, and policies related to the Program. 
3. 
FISP 
shall 
be 
responsible 
for 
day-to-day 
project 
management 
and 
implementation, and shall also be responsible for financial management, disbursement, 
procurement, and preparation of progress reports and annual work programs in respect of 
the Project. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, MOCMC, 
FISP and the St. Petersburg Working Group at all times function in a manner, and with 
staff, consultants, facilities and other resources necessary for the management and 
implementation of the Program and the Project, satisfactory to the Bank. 
5. 
For the purposes of funding local expenditures under the Project, the Borrower 
shall, through MOCMC: (i) not later than August 1, 2003, open a separate account (the 
Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank 
with an initial deposit equivalent to $100,000; (ii) thereafter maintain and replenish said 
account at the beginning of each month to ensure that adequate funds, as deemed 
necessary by the Bank, are available to meet the expected local expenditures for the next 
month; and (iii) use the funds so deposited on said account exclusively for financing the 
implementation of the Project. 
6. 
The Borrower undertakes to complete the works commenced on the Castle 
Square and Theater Square as part of the Project in conjunction with the planned works 
on Mariinsky Theater and Hermitage Museum. 
- 37 -
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure the carrying out of technical review and approval of 
construction plans and documents for the works under Parts A and B of the Project in 
accordance with the requirements of Russian legislation. 
8. 
For purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure: (i) selection and 
approval of cultural institutions in accordance with eligibility criteria and approval 
procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual, acceptable to the Bank; and  
(ii) conclusion of a grant agreement or other arrangements between FISP and the 
recipient cultural institution containing terms and conditions specified under the Project 
Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank.   
B. 
Annual Reports and Work Program
The Borrower shall cause FISP to provide to the Bank, on or about October 31 of 
each year throughout the execution of the Project, an annual report on the progress of 
Project implementation, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, including a draft annual work program for the following year. 
C. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in 
the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the 
Project. 
D. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an annual basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about July 1, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date;  
- 38 -
(c) 
review with the Bank, by October 1, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
(d) 
cause FISP to submit to the Bank on a quarterly basis project progress 
reports for its review and approval.  
- 39 -
SCHEDULE 7 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services and operating costs required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $6,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $3,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 40 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 41 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
