 
 
 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7236-PH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Diversified Farm Income and Market Development Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated August 24 , 2004
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7236-PH  
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower aims to stimulate rural growth and employment, and 
thereby to increase farmers’ income; and for this purpose, the Borrower intends, in the 
long-term to: (i) make its Department of Agriculture more service- and market-oriented, 
and (ii) arrest and reverse the decline in competitiveness of the agriculture and fisheries 
sector by creating better conditions for agribusiness diversification and productivity-
enhancing investments by the private sector (the Program); 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) which is part of the 
Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 with the 
following modification (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: the text in Section 5.01 which reads “(a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is deleted in its entirety. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
- 2- 
 
(a) 
“Agriculture and Fisheries Market Information System” and the acronym 
AFMIS mean the information system established by the Borrower’s Department of 
Agriculture pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Central Bank of the Republic of 
the Philippines, and any successor thereto. 
(c) 
“Beneficiary” means an LGU, or a private sector group registered as a 
legal entity, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operations Manual, to 
receive a Sub-grant from DA, out of the proceeds of the Loan, for purposes of market 
development and expansion of employment opportunities for farm households, and the 
term “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(d)  
“Competitive Research Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be 
made, by the Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a Competitive Research Grant 
Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out a Competitive Research Grant Sub-project, 
and the term “Competitive Research Grants” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
(e) 
“Competitive Research Grant Agreement” means the agreement entered 
into between the Borrower and a Competitive Research Grant Beneficiary pursuant to 
paragraph 11 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and the term “Competitive Research Grant 
Agreements” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(f) 
“Competitive Research Grant Beneficiary” means any public or private 
sector research organization, university, or any other qualified person or organization 
involved in agriculture, livestock or fisheries, to whom, and for whose benefit, a 
Competitive Research Grant is made or proposed to be made. 
(g) 
“Competitive Research Grant Manual” means the manual setting forth, 
inter alia, eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines for the identification, approval, 
administration and supervision of a Competitive Research Grant Sub-project and to be 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Competitive Research Grant Manual. 
 
(h) 
"Competitive Research Grant Sub-project" means a specific research 
project that meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Competitive Research Grant 
Manual, to be carried out by a Competitive Research Grant Beneficiary utilizing the 
proceeds of a Competitive Research Grant; and the term “Competitive Research Grant 
Sub-projects” means, collectively, the plural thereof.  
(i) 
“DA” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture and any 
successor thereto. 
 
- 3- 
 
(j) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Sub-projects, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, and “Displaced Persons” means, 
collectively, the plural thereof. 
(k) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
(l) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(m) 
“Environmental Guidelines” means the guidelines, adopted by the 
Borrower on January 30, 2004, which set forth the rules and procedures for the carrying 
out the environmental assessments and preparing environmental management plans for 
the Sub-projects to be implemented under Part B of the Project during the period of the 
Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank.  
(n) 
“Environmental Management Plan” and its acronym “EMP” mean the 
environmental management plan prepared in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
the Environmental Guidelines, adopted by the Borrower on January 30, 2004, which sets 
out  environmental protection measures in respect of the Sub-projects for the first year of 
the Project implementation, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of said Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
(o) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(p) 
“Fiscal Year”  means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which begins on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year. 
 
(q) 
“Focus Areas” means, collectively, the areas in Region 6, Region 7,  
Region 10, the Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR), and such other areas agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
(r) 
“Implementation Procedures” means the procedures to be followed by  
DA’s Regional Field Units in the approval, management and supervision of Sub-projects.   
 
(s) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and 
cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
 
- 4- 
 
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics: (i) a 
close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas; 
(ii) self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group; 
(iii) an indigenous language, often different from Pilipino, the Recipient’s national 
language; (iv) presence of customary social and political institutions; and (v) primarily 
subsistence-oriented production. 
 
(t) 
“Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework” means the framework, adopted 
by the Borrower on January 30, 2004, providing procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) 
the informed involvement of Indigenous Peoples, through a process of informed 
consultation, in the design and implementation of the Sub-projects in locations in which 
such people reside or which they use for their livelihood, and (ii) designing and 
implementing measures to provide benefits which are socially and culturally acceptable 
to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse impacts of the Sub-projects, as such 
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(u) 
“Local Government Unit” and the acronym “LGU” mean a local 
government unit which is a political subdivision of the Republic of the Philippines at the 
provincial, city, municipal, or Barangay level, and “Local Government Units” and the 
acronym “LGUs” mean, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(v) 
“Major Final Outputs” means the goods and services DA is responsible 
for and relating to DA’s mandate as agreed with the Department of the Budget 
Management (DBM) and the National Economic and Development Authority in the 
budget guidelines of DBM.   
 
(w) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual for the Beneficiaries to prepare 
and implement the Sub-projects, satisfactory to the Bank, referred to in paragraph 2(a) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as said manual may be revised from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank.   
 
(x) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
March 23, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(y) 
“Regional Field Units” means DA’s regional field units in the Focus 
Areas.  
 
(z) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
- 5- 
 
 
(aa) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework, adopted by the 
Borrower on January 22, 2004, providing procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) the 
involuntary taking of land and other assets from Displaced Persons, (ii) resettlement  and 
rehabilitation of, and compensation to, Displaced Persons, and (iii) reporting and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with such framework, as such framework 
may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(bb) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively: (i) the DA Special Account; (ii) 
the DA Regional Field Unit 6 Special Account; (iii) the DA Regional Field Unit 7 
Special Account; (iv) the DA Regional Field Unit 10 Special Account; and  (v) the DA 
CAR Regional Field Unit Special Account; referred to in Section B(1) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and “Special Account” means any of said Special Accounts. 
(cc) 
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower, through DA, to a Beneficiary, out of the proceeds of the Loan, through a  Sub-
grant Agreement, to finance the carrying out of a Sub-project, in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement and the Operations Manual; and the term “Sub-
grants” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
(dd) 
“Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, through DA, and a Beneficiary for purposes of providing a Sub-grant, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank, and  
the term “Sub-grant Agreements” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
(ee) 
“Sub-project” means a specific market development investment project 
under Part B of the Project that meet the eligibility and selection criteria and the 
Borrower’s cost-sharing requirements set forth in the Operations Manual, to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant, and the term “Sub-projects” 
means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixty million 
Dollars ($60,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a Competitive 
Research Grant under Part D(1) of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
 
- 6- 
 
works and services required for a Competitive Research Grant Sub-project, in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and for amounts paid (or, if 
the Bank so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a Sub-grant under Part B of 
the Project to meet the reasonable cost of works required for a Sub-project; in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (ii) expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works,  
and services required for other parts of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan; (iii) in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; and (iv) and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
- 7- 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through the Department of 
Agriculture, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
agricultural, administrative, economic, engineering, financial and managerial practices 
 
- 8- 
 
and sound social and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
  
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through DA, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the 
Bank not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
- 9- 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of  statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 12 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
- 10- 
 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Environmental Management Plan, 
the Environmental Guidelines, Resettlement Policy Framework, and Indigenous Peoples 
Policy Framework have been adopted in accordance with the Borrower’s applicable laws 
and regulations and are legally binding upon the Borrower.   
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
- 11- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
 
 
Department of Finance 
 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 
 
Roxas Blvd. 
 
 
Manila, Philippines 
 
 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
SECFIN 
 
 
 
 
(63-2) 526-9990 
 
 
Manila  
 
 
 
 
(63-2) 523-9216 
 
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
 
 
International Bank for 
 
 
   Reconstruction and Development 
 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
 
United States of America 
 
 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
 
 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
 
 
- 12- 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
/s/ Juanita D. Amatong 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
  
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
/s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
- 13- 
 
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
Part A:  General 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 
 
Loan (Expressed 
Expenditures 
 
Category 
in Dollars) 
to be Financed 
 
 
(1) Competitive Research Grants  
3,773,000 
 
100 % of amounts of  
 
under Part D(1) of the Project 
  
 
disbursed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2) Sub-grants under Part B of 
      
 
80% of the amounts   
 
the Project for: 
 
 
disbursed 
 
(a) DA 
4,000,000 
 
 
 
 
(b) DA Regional Field Unit 6 
3,000,000 
 
(c) DA Regional Field Unit 7 
3,000,000 
 
(d) DA Regional Field Unit 10  
3,000,000 
 
(e) DA CAR Regional Field Unit  
3,000,000 
 
(3)  Works under Part C(2)  
3,770,000 
 
80% 
 
of the Project 
 
(4)  Goods  
  16,638,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
 
 
 
expenditures, 
 
 
 
 
100% of local 
 
 
 
 
expenditures 
 
 
 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
 
 
 
and 90% of local 
 
 
 
 
expenditures for 
 
 
 
 
other items procured 
 
 
 
 
locally 
 
 
- 14- 
 
(5)  Consultants’ Services 
 
 
87% of expenditures for  
(a) DA 
3,520,000 
 
services of firms and 82% 
 
(b) DA Regional Field Unit 6  
250,000 
 
of expenditures for services
 
 
(c) DA Regional Field Unit 7 
250,000 
 
of individual consultants 
 
(d) DA Regional Field Unit 10 
250,000 
(e) DA CAR Regional Field Unit  
250,000 
 
(6)  Training and Workshops 
 
 
100% 
(a) DA 
5,209,000 
 
(b) DA Regional Field Unit 6  
250,000 
 
(c) DA Regional Field Unit 7 
250,000 
 
(d) DA Regional Field Unit 10 
250,000 
(e) DA CAR Regional Field Unit 
250,000 
 
(7)  Operating Costs 
 
 
80% 
(a) DA  
7,490,000 
 
(b) DA Regional Field Unit 6  
250,000 
 
(c) DA Regional Field Unit 7  
250,000 
 
(d) DA Regional Field Unit 10  
250,000 
(e) DA CAR Regional Field Unit  
250,000 
 
(8) Front-end fee 
600,000 
 
Amount due under Section 
 
 
 
 
 
2.04 of this Agreement 
 
(9) Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
 
Amount due under Section 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
 
2.09 (c) of this Agreement 
 
Collars 
 
 
 
TOTAL  
60,000,000 
 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the reasonable expenditures incurred 
by the Borrower on account of the Project implementation (which expenditures would not 
have been incurred absent of the Project), including expenditures for the cost of office 
 
- 15- 
 
supplies, rental of facilities, and travel of the Project staff, fuel, repair and maintenance of 
vehicles used by the Project, but excluding salaries of the Project staff.    
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:  
(a) 
in respect of a Competitive Research Grant under Category (1) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless and until: the Competitive Research Grant 
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly adopted by the Borrower pursuant to 
paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and  
(b) 
in respect of a Sub-grant under Part B of the Project under Category (2) 
of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless and until: the Operational Manual and 
the Implementation Procedures, all satisfactory to the Bank, have been duly adopted by 
the Borrower, pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training and workshops; (f) Competitive Research 
Grants; (g) Sub-grants; and (h) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. 
Special Accounts  
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars: (a) a DA Special Account; (b) a 
DA Regional Field Unit 6 Special Account; (c) a DA Regional Field Unit 7 Special 
Account; (d) a DA Regional Field Unit 10 Special Account; and (e) a DA CAR Regional 
Field Unit Special Account; each in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this 
purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
- 16- 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts 
have been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into 
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
- 17- 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Accounts was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Accounts (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
- 18- 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “eligible Categories” means: 
(a) 
(i) 
in respect of the DA Special Account, Categories (1), (2)(a), (3), 
(4), (5)(a), (6)(a) and (7)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(ii) 
in respect of DA Regional Field Unit 6 Special Account, 
Categories (2)(b), (5)(b), (6)(b) and (7)(b);   
(iii) 
in respect of DA Regional Field Unit 7 Special Account, 
Categories (2)(c), (5)(c), (6)(c) and (7)(c);  
(iv) 
 in respect of DA Regional Field Unit 10 Special Account, 
Categories (2)(d), (5)(d), (6)(d) and (7)(d); and 
(v) 
 in respect of DA CAR Regional Field Unit Special Account, 
Categories (2)(e), (5)(e), (6)(e) and (7)(e).   
(b) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means in respect of: (i) the DA Special 
Account, an amount equal to $150,000; and (ii) each of the DA Regional Field Unit 6 
Special Account, DA Regional Field Unit 7 Special Account, DA Regional Field Unit 10 
Special Account, and DA CAR Regional Field Unit Special Account, an amount equal to 
$100,000; in each case to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Accounts all pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into the Respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
 
- 19- 
 
Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the respective Special 
Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
- 20- 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the respective Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Accounts an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
 
- 21- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the project is to assist the Borrower to strengthen its Department 
of Agriculture’s capacity to provide market-oriented services to increase agricultural 
competitiveness and rural incomes.     
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
A. 
Market Development Services 
1. 
Establishment and operation of the Agriculture and Fisheries Market Information 
System (AFMIS) and local market information systems in the Focus Areas, including the 
provision of equipment, technical assistance, training and operational support. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Agriculture Marketing Assistance Service 
(AMAS) of DA in market development, including: market promotion, enhanced web-
based information dissemination, market analysis and data collection, training and 
workshops facilitating linkages between growers, traders, processors and exporters.  
3. 
Enhancement of DA’s web sites and improvement of the National Information 
Network of DA, including provision of equipment, technical assistance and operational 
support. 
B. 
Market Development Investments 
 
 
 
Provision of Sub-grants to eligible Beneficiaries for the implementation of 
market development Sub-projects in the Focus Areas.   
C. 
Quality Assurance Systems Strengthening  
1. 
Strengthening the functions of DA’s regulatory agencies, through enhancing their  
web-based information system for access to quality assurance regulations and procedures; 
increasing the number of the accredited agricultural and fishery food and product safety 
inspectors; and developing safety and quality standards for agricultural and fishery 
products.   
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of DA to operate and maintain its laboratories to meet 
agricultural products safety and quality assurance requirements, and assisting DA in: (i) 
 
- 22- 
 
updating guidelines for independent accreditation of public and private laboratories and 
for private sector participation in laboratories and related services; (ii) introducing 
commercial practice in the management of its laboratories; (iii) developing financing 
mechanisms to sustain the operations of its laboratories; and (iv) rehabilitating and 
upgrading its laboratory buildings and facilities.  
3. 
Supporting DA in streamlining its quarantine and inspection processes, 
including: (i) consolidating the quarantine and inspection responsibilities; (ii) upgrading 
the quarantine and inspection facilities and equipment and providing training to 
inspectors at major ports; (iii) developing quarantine protocols designed to expedite the 
import and export clearance process; and (iv) establishing a computerized database for 
the quarantine service and linking said database with the customs computer system.        
4. 
Strengthening the capacity of DA in increasing farmer access to certified seeds 
and horticultural planting materials; and in effectively enforcing the Borrower’s laws and 
regulations governing intellectual property rights. 
D. 
Market-related Technology Development and Dissemination  
1. 
Strengthening the Competitive Research Grant scheme for development of 
agricultural, fishery and livestock technology, including: (i) provision of Competitive 
Research Grants to Competitive Research Grant Beneficiaries for market-oriented 
agriculture technology development; and (ii) provision of training to Competitive 
Research Grant Beneficiaries in research formulation and market related issues.  
2. 
Strengthening the primary role of the Agriculture Training Institute (ATI) of DA 
in strategic planning, coordinating and funding of training programs and information 
dissemination, including upgrading its communication facilities and equipment and 
provision of technical assistance and operating support therefor. 
E. 
Budget Resource Allocation and Planning and Project Management 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of DA in planning and prioritizing budget resources in 
line with its core functions and its Major Final Outputs.   
2. 
Supporting policy studies and advocacy actions on issues, including, but not 
limited to:  (i) the need to reform cabotage regulations; (ii) reducing transportation costs 
of collection and distribution of agricultural products; and (iii) comparison of agricultural 
inputs with those in other Asian countries.   
 
 
- 23- 
 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of DA in managing, monitoring and evaluating the 
Project, including provision of communication equipment, technical assistance, and 
operational support.    
 
* * *  
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008 
 
- 24- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date 
(Expressed as a %)  
 
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2012 through October 15, 2023 
4.17% 
 
 
On April 15, 2024 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
 
- 25- 
 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 26- 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I. 
General 
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services) 
A. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation 
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the  Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures  
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.  Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract and works (including those under Sub-projects) estimated to cost 
less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national competitive bidding in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.14 and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines and the additional 
provisions in the Annex to this Schedule 4. 
2. 
Shopping.  Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract  
and works (including those under Sub-projects) estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
- 27- 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting.  Goods which meet the requirements for direct contracting 
referred to in paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
Section III. Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines.   
B. 
Other Procedures 
1. 
Quality-based Selection.  Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of quality in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.  Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection.  Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Individual Consultants.  Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.   
Section IV.  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
A. 
Prior Review.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Borrower, the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)   
 
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to: (i) each contract for goods and  
services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more;  (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
 
- 28- 
 
and (iii) the first three contracts for works procured in each Focus Area in accordance 
with provisions in paragraphs (B)(1) and (B)(2) of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be 
procured on the basis of direct contracting:  (i) prior to the execution of the contract, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract for 
its approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have 
been given; and (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(h) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services   
 
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.   
 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of single source 
selection: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
(c) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:  (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval;  (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval 
shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
B. 
Post Review   
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
- 29- 
 
Annex to Schedule 4 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
With respect to goods and works to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of Section II to Schedule 4, the National 
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures of the Borrower shall apply, except that, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Bank in writing, the following procedures shall apply: 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) opportunities shall be advertised in 
national newspapers of general circulation, with sufficient time for bidders to prepare 
offers, which shall not be less than 30 days, unless a different time is specifically agreed 
upon by the Bank.  Posting shall also be done in the Government Electronic Procurement 
System (GEPS) or the Procuring Entity’s website.  
2. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors from eligible countries shall be allowed to 
participate, if interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint 
ventures with, local firms.  However, joint ventures will be encouraged. 
3. 
Eligibility screening may be carried out prior to bidding with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
4. 
If any bidder is to be denied access to the bidding process for reasons unrelated 
to its financial and technical qualifications to perform the contract, prior concurrence of 
the Bank shall be sought. 
5. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with the prior concurrence of the Bank in 
advance of bidding. The Approved Budget Estimate may be disclosed in the 
advertisement or in the bidding documents. 
6. 
The Bank’s domestic preferences shall not be applied in the evaluation of bids, 
and other preferences in effect in the Philippines shall also not be used, except with the 
prior concurrence of the Bank. 
7. 
Price negotiation shall not be allowed.  However, in the case of a budget 
limitation, an adjustment in the quantities of goods or the scope of work may be agreed 
upon, subject to the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
8. 
Bid opening shall be open to those who wish to attend, and the deadline for 
submission of bids shall be the same as that for bid opening.  All bids received on time 
shall be opened and read publicly. 
9. 
Within 72 hours from bid opening, but prior to bid evaluation, a copy of the 
certified minutes of bid opening shall be furnished to the Bank, which shall contain the 
following: (a) names of the bidders provided with bid documents; (b) original amount 
(unevaluated) of the bid of each bidder, as read; (c) date, time and place of bid opening; 
 
- 30- 
 
(d) summary of bid proceedings; and (e) names of the bidders’ representatives and other 
persons present. 
10. 
Suppliers and contractors shall not be required to purchase only local goods or 
supplies, or to hire local labor, except for unskilled labor. 
11. 
Explicit bid evaluation criteria shall be set forth in the bid documents based on 
monetarily quantifiable elements.  
12. 
Modifications exceeding 15% of the contract amount and material changes in the 
conditions during implementation require prior concurrence of the Bank. 
13. 
For foreign suppliers and contractors, prior registration (such as with the Bureau 
of Food and Drugs for the registration for drugs, agency accreditation, etc.), licensing 
(such as licensing by the Philippine Contractors Accreditation Board, etc.), and/or other 
government authorizations (such as a Mayor’s permit, etc.), shall not be a requirement for 
purposes of participating in bidding competitions. Such registration, licensing and/or 
other government authorizations may, however, be required from the selected bidder as a 
condition of signing of the contract, and the Borrower shall not be stopped from asserting 
such requirement where this is mandated under national law.  
14. 
Bid and performance securities shall be specified in the bidding documents, 
which may be in the form of a certified check, letter of credit, or bank guarantee from a 
reputable bank.  
15. 
To obtain the best market prices available, open competitive bidding shall be 
maximized.  For this purpose, requirements shall not include restrictive importation 
permits from private associations or protective preferences for Philippine Flag vessels.  
16. 
Two-envelope system procedures shall not be used unless prior concurrence by 
the Bank has been obtained. 
17. 
Privileges granted to Provincial bidders to match the lowest bid submitted by a 
contractor with the principal office address outside the province in which the project is 
located, shall not be allowed. 
18. 
The use of GEPS for procurement of goods may be allowed with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
 
- 31- 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Project Management 
 
1.  
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project: 
(a) 
the Project Advisory Board, assigned with such functions, membership, 
and responsibilities, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be required for the overall guidance 
and oversight of implementation of the Project; 
(b) 
the Project Coordination Office, headed by qualified and experienced 
officer and assigned with such functions, responsibilities and funds, satisfactory to the 
Bank, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, as shall be required for the day-to-
day operation, management, and coordination of the Project at the national level;   
(c) 
the Regional Project Advisory Board, assigned with such functions, 
membership, and responsibilities, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be required for the 
overall guidance and oversight of implementation of the Project at the regional level; and 
(d) 
the Regional Project Coordination offices, each headed by qualified and 
experienced officer assigned with such functions and responsibilities, satisfactory to the 
Bank, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, as shall be required for 
management and facilitation of the Project at the regional level.  
Project Implementation  
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
adopt and thereafter implement the Operations Manual and the 
Implementation Procedures in the selection, approval and supervision of Sub-projects, in 
a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the description of: 
(i) financial management and disbursement procedures; (ii) environmental and social 
safeguards requirements and measures for Sub-projects; (iii) the eligibility criteria of 
selection of Beneficiaries for carrying out Sub-projects; (iv) the procedure and criteria for 
appraisal and selection of Sub-projects; (v) terms and conditions governing the Sub-grant 
Agreements; (vi) procurement procedures under the Sub-projects; and (vii) the Sub-
projects Implementation arrangements;    
 (b) 
adopt and thereafter implement the Competitive Research Grant Manual 
in the selection, approval and supervision of the Competitive Research Grant Sub-
projects, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the 
description of: (i) eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines for the identification, 
approval, administration and supervision of a Competitive Research Grant Sub-project, 
 
- 32- 
 
(ii) selection criteria for Competitive Research Grant Beneficiaries; (iii) procurement 
procedures; and (iv) financial management and disbursement procedures; and  
(c) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said 
Operational Manual, the Implementation Procedures, and the Competitive Research 
Grant Manual without the prior concurrence of the Bank.  
3. 
In carrying out Part A(1) of the Project, by December 31, 2004, the Borrower, 
through DA, shall establish AFMIS to provide adequate, timely and reliable information 
to growers, traders, processors, and exporters on agricultural commodities, to be 
administered by an AFMIS Management Group, with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
4. 
In carrying out Part C(2) of the Project, by June 30, 2005, the Borrower through 
DA, shall: (i) undertake a review of the technical, physical and financial needs of DA’s 
laboratories; and (ii) develop a time-bound action plan, taking due consideration of the 
Bank comments thereon, and thereafter implement said plan to strengthen, operate and 
maintain said laboratories following commercial principles and practice.    
5. 
In carrying out Part C(3) of the Project, by May 31, 2005, the Borrower through 
DA, shall: (i) complete a review and consultation process with DA’s regulatory agencies 
responsible for quarantine services; and (ii) develop a time-bound action plan taking due 
consideration of the Bank’s comments thereon, and thereafter implement said plan to 
streamline quarantine services and processes.    
6. 
In carrying out Part D(2) of the Project and in line with the goals of the 
Borrower’s Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act, the Borrower, through DA, 
shall, by March 31, 2005, redefine the role of the Agriculture Training Institute as being 
primarily responsible for strategic planning, coordination, and funding of agriculture 
training and agricultural information dissemination. 
7. 
In carrying out Part E(1) of the Project, no later than March 31 of each Fiscal 
year, commencing in FY 2005 and thereafter until completion of the Project, the 
Borrower, shall through DA, the Department of Budget and Management, and the 
National Economic and Development Authority, review with the Bank, the proposed 
DA’s budget allocation for next Fiscal Year, and thereafter, taking due consideration of 
the Bank’s comment thereon, and take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that 
the DA budgets for next Fiscal Year are in line with DA’s Major Final Outputs.  
 
- 33- 
 
Sub-projects and Sub-grants  
8. 
No Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan 
unless the Borrower is satisfied that the Sub-project meets the eligibility criteria specified 
below, and the provisions set forth in the Operations Manual, which shall include, the 
following: 
 
(a) 
each Sub-project shall be a market development investment project 
which is technically and financially viable and environmentally and socially sound; 
 
(b) 
each Sub-project shall be promoted, appraised and approved in 
accordance with the procedures and other provisions set forth in the Operations Manual; 
and 
 
(c) 
each Beneficiary applying for any Sub-grants provided under the Project 
shall meet relevant criteria set out in the Operations Manual.  
9. 
The Borrower shall through DA enter into Sub-grant agreements with 
Beneficiaries satisfactory to the Bank as a condition for the making of Sub-grants for 
Sub-projects. The terms and conditions of each Sub-grant Agreement shall, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
require that the eligible Beneficiary: (i) carry out the Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, managerial and agricultural practices and sound environmental and social  
standards; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Sub-project; and (iii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
relating to the Sub-project; 
 
(b) 
require that the works to be financed from the proceeds of the Sub-grant 
shall: (i) be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy 
and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this  Agreement; and (ii) be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project or Sub-projects; and 
 
(c) 
require eligible Beneficiaries to carry out the Environmental Guidelines, 
the Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the 
Indigenous Peoples Development Framework, in a manner and substance, satisfactory to 
the Bank, including, whenever required pursuant to said guidelines and frameworks, to 
prepare and implement an environmental management plan, resettlement action plan and 
indigenous people development plan for Sub-projects to be identified during the Project 
implementation, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
 
- 34- 
 
 
 (d) 
reserve for the Borrower the right to: 
(i) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank, if the Bank shall so 
request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction included 
in the Sub-project or Sub-projects, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents; 
(ii) 
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the eligible Beneficiary; and 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the eligible Beneficiary to use 
the proceeds of the Sub-grant upon the failure by the eligible 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-grant 
Agreement. 
Competitive Research Grant  
10. 
No Competitive Research Grant Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan unless the Borrower is satisfied that the Competitive Research 
Grant  Sub-project meets the eligibility criteria specified below, and the provisions set 
forth in the Competitive Research Grant Manual, which shall include, the following:  
 
 
 
(a) 
each Competitive Research Grant Sub-project shall be a research project 
for crops, livestock, and fisheries products with strong market potential, which is 
scientifically and technically sound; 
 
(b) 
each Competitive Research Grant Sub-project shall be promoted, 
appraised and  approved in accordance with the procedures and other provisions set forth 
in the Competitive Research Grant Manual; and 
 
(c) 
each Competitive Research Grant Beneficiary applying for any 
Competitive Research Grant provided under the Project shall meet the relevant criteria set 
out in the Competitive Research Grant Manual.  
11. 
The Borrower shall through DA enter into Competitive Research Grant 
Agreements with Competitive Research Grant Beneficiaries, satisfactory to the Bank, as 
a condition for the making of Competitive Research Grants for Competitive Research 
Grant Sub-projects. The terms and conditions of each Competitive Research Grant 
Agreement shall, inter alia: 
 
- 35- 
 
(a) 
require that the eligible Competitive Research Grant Beneficiary: (i) 
carry out the Competitive Research Grant Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, managerial and 
agricultural practices and sound environmental and social standards; (ii) provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Competitive Research Grant Sub-project; and (iii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
relating to the Competitive Research  Grant Sub-project; 
(b) 
require that the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Competitive Research Grant shall: (i) be procured in accordance with 
procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this  Agreement; and (ii) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Competitive Research Grant Sub-project or Competitive Research Grant Sub-projects; 
and 
 
 
(c) 
reserve the Borrower is the right to:  
 
 
 
 
(i) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank, if the Bank shall so 
request, the equipment, experimentation plots and laboratories, 
sites, services and training included in the Competitive Research 
Grant Sub-project, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents; 
 
 
 
(ii) 
obtain from the Competitive Research Grant Beneficiaries all 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions 
of the Competitive Research Grant Sub-project; and 
 
 
 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Competitive Research Grant 
Beneficiaries to use the proceeds of the Competitive Research 
Grant for the Competitive Research Grant Sub-projects upon the 
failure by the Competitive Research Beneficiaries to perform any 
of their obligations under their Competitive Research Grant 
Agreements.  
 
Monitoring, Evaluation, Reporting  
12. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
- 36- 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2006, an external mid-term evaluation report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; 
(d) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2008, an external terminal evaluation report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure sustainability of the Project achievement; and 
 (e) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure sustainability of the Project achievement, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
 
 
 
- 37- 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
Mid-term Review 
Project 
Completion 
 
Better client satisfaction with DA’s 
delivery of market information, 
development services and market 
related investments 
15% increase over the 
2004 baseline level of 
client satisfaction  
35% increase over the 2004 
baseline level of client 
satisfaction 
 
Strengthening core functions of the 
DA on support of market 
development services, quality 
assurance, market-linked technology 
development and dissemination, and 
agricultural development planning 
and resource allocation 
 
Indicative budget 
targets as a % of the 
total annual DA 
budget:   
Market Development  
Services 4%,  
Regulatory Services 
10%,  
Information Services 
3%,  
Infrastructure Services 
10%, Research and 
Technology 7%, 
Planning, M&E,  and 
Financial Management  
6% 
 
Indicative budget targets as a % 
of the total annual DA budget:   
Market Development Services 
7%, Regulatory Services 10%,  
Information Services 5%,  
Infrastructure Services10%,  
Research and Technology 8%, 
Planning, M&E,  and Financial 
Management 7% 
Output Indicators 
 
 
Operationalization of the AFMIS in 
the four focus areas   
 
 
35% of targeted 
farmers in the focus 
areas regularly 
accessing AFMIS  
75% of targeted farmers in the 
focus areas regularly accessing 
AFMIS 
 
All infrastructure investments 
supported by the DA in Focus Areas 
would be executed following the 
procedures described in the 
Operations Manual, consistent with 
the framework of devolution and 
NG-LGU financing framework. 
 
All market 
development 
investments in the 
focus areas are being 
carried out in 
accordance with the 
Operations Manual and 
the Implementation 
Procedures for market 
development.   
 
All market development 
investments in the focus areas are 
being carried out in accordance 
with the Operations Manual and 
the Implementation Procedures 
for market development. 
 
    
 
- 38- 
 
 
Full disclosure of regulatory 
procedures, charges, forms etc. 
through a web-based information 
system 
 
Full cost charge-out rates applied for 
services connected with provision of 
clearances, certification, provision of 
improved genetic material etc. 
 
Increase in the number of accredited 
private sector operated seed 
production units, nurseries, and 
analytical laboratories, servicing the 
sector 
  
Protocols for web-
based system 
developed and tested 
 
 
Action plan for full-
cost recovery put into 
effect 
 
 
Adoption of DA 
private sector 
accreditation guidelines 
User-friendly, comprehensive 
web-based system operating and 
publicized 
 
 
Full cost recovery for all services 
achieved 
 
 
 
Increase in the number of  DA 
private sector accreditation 
guidelines by at least 20% 
 
 
 
 
Loan funds provided through the 
Competitive Grants Program support  
research with clear linkages to 
market demand and opportunities  
  
 
Research subprojects 
being  undertaken in 
accordance with the 
Competitive Research 
Grants Manual  
 
Technologies being developed 
have clear linkages with market 
demand and opportunities  
 
 
 
