 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7239 - TUN 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Second Export Development Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 2, 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7239 - TUN 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the “Project”), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Centre de Promotion des 
Exportations (the “CEPEX”) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CEPEX part of the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided in this Agreement; 
 
(C) 
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Compagnie Tunisienne 
pour l’Assurance du Commerce Extérieur (the “COTUNACE”) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
COTUNACE part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
 
(D) 
Parts C, D and E of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower as 
provided in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS (E) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
CEPEX (the “CEPEX Project Agreement”). 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
- 2 - 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means, individually, (a) a commercial, manufacturing, 
artisanal or services, direct or indirect, exporting or potentially exporting enterprise, 
including a first time direct or indirect exporter, (b) a professional association involved in 
the export business or (c) an export consulting entity established and operating within the 
Borrower’s territory, eligible to receive a Matching Grant from CEPEX under EMAFII in 
accordance with the eligibility and selection criteria set forth in the EMAFII Operations 
Manual, and the term “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, more than one Beneficiary; 
 
(b) 
“Borrower Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of, and Schedule 6 to, this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Category” means, individually, a category of items set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the term “Categories” means, 
collectively, more than one Category; 
 
(d) 
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de 
Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 58-90 dated 
September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(e) 
“CEPEX” means the Borrower’s Center for Export Promotion (Centre de 
Promotion des Exportations), an industrial and commercial public enterprise, established 
and operating under the Borrower’s rules and regulations pursuant to the CEPEX Charter, 
and such term includes any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(f) 
“CEPEX Charter” means the founding charter, articles of incorporation 
and by-laws, or other similar instrument of CEPEX, as amended up to the date of this 
Agreement, issued pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 73-20 dated April 14, 1973, as 
may be amended from time to time; 
 
(g) 
“CEPEX Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CEPEX pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement and 
Section 2.02 (a) of the CEPEX Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
CEPEX Grant Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“CEPEX Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and CEPEX of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CEPEX Project 
Agreement; 
 
- 3 - 
 
(i) 
“CEPEX Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (i) of, and Schedule 6 to, this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“COTUNACE” means the Borrower’s Tunisian Company for Foreign 
Trade Insurance (Compagnie Tunisienne pour l’Assurance du Commerce Exterieur), an 
industrial and commercial public enterprise, established and operating under the 
Borrower’s rules and regulations pursuant to the COTUNACE Charter, and such term 
includes any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(k) 
“COTUNACE Charter” means the founding charter, articles of 
incorporation and by-laws or other similar instrument of COTUNACE, as amended up to 
the date of this Agreement, registered in the commercial registry Borrower under 
No. 2894 on September 8, 1984; 
 
(l) 
“COTUNACE Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and COTUNACE pursuant to Sections 3.03 (a) and 6.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the COTUNACE Grant Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“DGD” means the Borrower’s General Customs Directorate (“Direction 
Générale des Douanes”) within MOF, and such term includes any successor thereto; 
 
(n) 
“Eligible Enterprise” means, individually, an exporting or potentially 
exporting enterprise established and operating within the Borrower’s territory, and 
engaged, directly or indirectly, in export transactions, eligible and selected in accordance 
with the criteria set forth in the PEFGF Operations Manual, and the term “Eligible 
Enterprises” means, collectively, more than one Eligible Enterprise; 
 
(o) 
“EMAFII” means the second Export Market Access Fund provided 
under Part A of the Project to be administered and operated by CEPEX pursuant to the 
provisions of the CEPEX Project Agreement and the EMAFII Operations Manual; 
 
(p) 
“EMAFII Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, which sets forth the administrative, financial, 
operational and personnel procedures, including, inter alia, criteria for providing 
Matching Grants to Beneficiaries, accounting, financial reporting and auditing 
procedures, for the administration and operation of EMAFII, and the conduct and 
monitoring of its activities, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the 
prior written agreement of the Bank; 
 
(q) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Fiscal Year” means, individually, the twelve (12) month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s or CEPEX’s fiscal years, which period 
- 4 - 
 
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term 
“Fiscal Years” means, collectively, more than one Fiscal Year; 
 
(s) 
“INORPI” means the National Institute for Standards and Industrial 
Property (Institut National de la Normalisation et de la Propriété Industrielle) under the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Industry and Energy, and such term includes any successor 
thereto;  
 
(t) 
“LCAE” means the Borrower’s Central Laboratory for Analysis and 
Tests (Laboratoire central d’analyse et d’essai), and such term includes any successor 
thereto; 
 
(u) 
“Matching Grants” means the grants to be provided under EMAFII by 
CEPEX to Beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions of the CEPEX Project 
Agreement and the EMAFII Operations Manual; 
 
(v) 
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review to be carried out pursuant 
to paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(w) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and such term 
includes any successor thereto; 
 
(x) 
“MOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Commerce, and such term 
includes any successor thereto; 
 
(y) 
“PCMU” means the Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit 
established within MOC pursuant to MOC’s Decision No. 181 dated May 11, 2004, and 
such term includes any successor thereto;  
 
(z) 
“PEFGF” means the Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee Facility 
provided under the Export Development Project governed by the Loan Agreement dated 
June 3, 1999, between the Borrower and the Bank and the Project Agreement of even 
date between the Bank and COTUNACE, setting forth the provisions pursuant to which 
said Facility is administered and operated by COTUNACE; 
 
(aa) 
“PEFGF Operations Manual” means the manual adopted by 
COTUNACE pursuant to the provisions of the COTUNACE Project Agreement dated 
June 3, 1999, between the Bank and COTUNACE, setting forth the administrative, 
financial, operational and personnel procedures, including, inter alia, the terms and 
conditions for issuance of guarantees (including the modalities for determining the 
premiums therefore), accounting, financial reporting and auditing procedures, for the 
day-to-day administration and operation of the PEFGF, and the conduct and monitoring 
of its activities, as such Manual may be amended from time to time with the prior written 
agreement of the Bank; 
 
- 5 - 
 
(bb) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan included in 
the Project Implementation Plan, covering the initial 18 month period of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.05 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods of 
Project implementation; 
 
(cc) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project implementation plan 
referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, setting forth the procedures governing 
the administrative, procurement, disbursement, financial management, monitoring and 
evaluation and reporting arrangements for the Project; 
 
(dd) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of, 
and in Schedule 6 to, this Agreement; 
 
(ee) 
“Steering Committee” means the Inter-Departmental Steering Committee 
appointed pursuant to the MOC’s Decision No. 276; and 
 
(ff) 
“Technical Committee” means the Borrower’s Trade Logistics and 
Facilitation Technical Committee appointed pursuant to the MOC’s Decision No. 277, 
and including, inter alia, the Working group on E-government responsible for ensuring 
the application of standard procedures for technical control. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million three hundred thousand Euros (EUR 30,300,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, B, C, D and E of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) for amounts paid (or if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made in respect of 
Matching Grants under Part A.1 of the Project; and (iii) in respect of the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
the following separate special deposit accounts in Euros in its Central Bank on terms and 
- 6 - 
 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank: (i) one such account for Part A of the Project (the 
CEPEX Special Account); and (ii) one such account for Parts B, C, D and E of the 
Project (the Borrower Special Account). Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to three hundred three thousand Euros (EUR 303,000). On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. Such fee shall be payable not later than 
60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty-five one hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, of vice versa; and 
- 7 - 
 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall cause 
COTUNACE to carry out Part B of the Project; (ii) shall carry out Parts C, D and E of the 
Project through INORPI, MOC and DGD; (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon 
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause CEPEX to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the CEPEX Project Agreement all the obligations of 
CEPEX therein set forth in respect of carrying out Part A of the Project; all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, 
financial, insurance, technical assistance and export and trade management practices. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project, and  shall take or cause to be taken 
all action necessary or appropriate to enable CEPEX to perform its corresponding 
obligations under the CEPEX Project Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts C, D and E of the Project and shall cause COTUNACE to carry out 
Part B of the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan. 
 
- 8 - 
 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, in respect of Part A of the Project, make 
available to CEPEX, on a non-reimbursable grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2(a)), (3(a)) and (4), under a grant 
agreement (the “CEPEX Grant Agreement”) to be entered into between MOF, acting on 
behalf of the Borrower, and CEPEX under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and obligations under the CEPEX 
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and achieve the objectives of the Project, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the CEPEX Grant Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B of the Project, make 
available to COTUNACE, on a non-reimbursable grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories (2(b)) and (3(b)), under a grant agreement (the 
“COTUNACE Grant Agreement”) to be entered into between MOF, acting on behalf of 
the Borrower, and COTUNACE under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and obligations under the 
COTUNACE Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and achieve the objectives of 
the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the COTUNACE Grant Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall 
be carried out by CEPEX pursuant to Section 2.08 of the CEPEX Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.05. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later 
than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
- 9 - 
 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts B, C, D and E of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Borrower’s Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
- 10 - 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure for Parts B, C, D and E of 
the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Parts B, C, D and E of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Parts B, C, D 
and E of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts B, C, D and E of 
the Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and 
- 11 - 
 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Parts B, C, D and 
E of the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
CEPEX shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
CEPEX Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CEPEX will be able to perform its corresponding obligations under the CEPEX 
Project Agreement; 
 
(c) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CEPEX or COTUNACE, or for the 
suspension of any of their operations; 
 
(d) 
Any provision of the CEPEX or the COTUNACE Charter shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived so as to, in the opinion of the 
Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of CEPEX or COTUNACE , as the case 
may be, to carry out its respective Part of the Project; or  
 
(e) 
Any provision of the EMAFII Operations Manual or the PEFGF 
Operations Manual shall have been amended, suspended or waived so as to, in the 
opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of CEPEX or 
COTUNACE, as the case may be, to carry out its respective Part of the Project. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur. 
- 12 - 
 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
The CEPEX Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and CEPEX and has entered into effect in accordance with its terms;  
 
(b) 
The COTUNACE Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and COTUNACE and has entered into effect in accordance with its terms;  
 
(c) 
CEPEX has formally approved for its use and operations, and furnished 
to the Bank, the EMAFII Operations Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank; and 
 
(d) 
The Borrower has formally approved and furnished to the Bank the 
Project Implementation Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the CEPEX Project Agreement has been duly executed and 
authorized by CEPEX, and is legally binding upon CEPEX in accordance with its terms;  
 
(b) 
that the CEPEX Grant Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and 
CEPEX and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CEPEX in accordance with its 
terms; and 
 
(c) 
that the COTUNACE Grant Agreement has been duly executed by the 
Borrower and COTUNACE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and COTUNACE 
in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
- 13 - 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development and International Cooperation of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
 
Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Cable Address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile:  
 
MCCIIE 
 
18060  
 
216-71-351666 
216-71-799069 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 14 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
/s/ Hatem Atallah 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
  
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
/s/ Christiaan Poortman 
 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
- 15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category 
(Expressed in Euros) 
to be Financed 
 
(1) 
Matching Grants under 
13,900,000 
100% of amounts of 
 
Part A of the Project 
 
Matching Grants 
 
 
 
Disbursed to any 
 
 
 
Beneficiary 
 
(2) 
Goods: 
 
 
(a) under Parts A.2 and 
85,000 
100% of foreign  
 
 
A.3 of the Project 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
 
 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(b) under Part B of the Project 
85,000 
(ex-factory cost) and  
 
 
 
 
80% of local 
 
(c) under Part C of the Project 
350,000 
expenditures for other 
 
 
 
 
items procured locally 
 
(d) under Part D of the Project 
8,800,000 
 
 
(e) under Part E of the Project 
85,000 
 
(3)  
Consultant’s services 
 
 
and training 
 
 
 
(a) under Parts A.2 and  
3,300,000 
Consultants domiciled 
 
 
A.3 of the Project 
 
within the territory of 
 
 
 
 
the Borrower and 
 
(b) under Part B of the Project 
600,000 
79% for services of  
 
 
 
 
other consultants 
 
(c) under Part C of the Project 
500,000 
 
 
(d) under Part D of the Project 
1,700,000 
 
 
(e) under Part E of the Project 
125,000 
 
- 16 - 
 
 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category 
(Expressed in Euros) 
to be Financed 
 
(4)  
Export Promotion under  
467,000 
80% 
 
 
Part A.4 of the Project 
 
(5)  
Front-end Fee 
303,000 
Amount due under 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
 
 
 
Agreement 
 
 
_________ 
 
 
TOTAL 
30,300,000 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) Matching 
Grants costing less than $100,000 per grant; (b) goods costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving access to 
export markets and finance, and enhancing the efficiency and performance of export 
related procedures, including customs operations and technical control clearance 
procedures, thereby making trade logistics more efficient. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Second Export Market Access Fund 
 
1. 
Establishing and operating the second Export Market Access Fund (EMAFII) for 
the provision of Matching Grants to Beneficiaries to enable them to identify and 
effectively penetrate viable export markets and enhance their export competitiveness. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the export development capacity of intermediary entities such as 
export consultants, export associations, chambers of commerce or professional 
organizations involved in the export business, through the provision of technical 
assistance to such intermediary entities. 
 
3. 
Establishment, within CEPEX, of an autonomous management team in charge of 
managing EMAFII and  providing export business support services to Beneficiaries in 
accordance with the EMAFII Manual, through the provision of goods, technical assistance 
and training. 
 
4. 
Support for the carrying out of targeted export promotion programs such as  
buyers/vendors meetings. 
 
Part B: Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee 
 
Strengthening the management of the PEFGF with the support of international 
and local experts. 
 
Part C: Technical Barriers to Trade (“TBT”) Inquiry Points 
 
 
Strengthening the capacity of INORPI for collection, analysis and dissemination 
of standards information through the provision of goods, technical assistance and 
training. 
 
- 18 - 
 
Part D: Trade Logistics 
 
1. 
Enhancing and streamlining the Borrower’s technical control procedures and 
integrating them into the TunisieTradeNet network, through the provision of goods, 
consultant’s services and training, including: 
 
(a) 
the automation of workflow and decision making processes of the 
Borrower’s technical control agencies and the LCAE, and the establishment of their 
interface with the TunisieTradeNet network; 
 
(b) 
the implementation of an integrated risk-management system at the level 
of each of the Borrower’s technical control agency; and 
 
(c) 
the establishment and operation of a digital database consolidating all 
mandatory technical control regulations covering goods in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
2. 
Streamlining and improving the effectiveness of the Borrower’s customs 
procedures through the provision of goods, technical assistance and training, including: 
 
(a) 
the introduction of risk analysis and management and selectivity 
techniques in customs procedures, including the establishment of a risk management 
information system aiming at streamlining and integrating customs and technical control 
inspections; 
 
(b) 
the introduction of deferred control and post event audit techniques 
within the customs; and 
 
(c) 
the improvement of the management information system of the customs. 
 
3. 
Developing trade logistics performance indicators through the carrying out of an 
assessment and a data collection program on supply chain barriers with respect to 
transport and non-transport trade and logistics. 
 
Part D: Project Management 
 
Strengthening the capacity of PCMU in Project management through the 
provision of technical assistance and goods.  
 
* * * 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009. 
- 19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Installment Share 
Payment Date 
 
 
 
 
(Expressed as a %) 
 
May 1, 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
November 1, 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
November 1, 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
November 1, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
November 1, 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
November 1, 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
November 1, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
November 1, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
November 1, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
November 1, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
May 1, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
November 1, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
May 1, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
November 1, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5% 
May 1, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5% 
November 1, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3% 
May 1, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.0% 
November 1, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0% 
May 1, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.8% 
November 1, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5% 
- 20 - 
 
Installment Share 
Payment Date 
 
 
 
 
(Expressed as a %) 
 
May 1, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5% 
November 1, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6% 
May 1, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3% 
November 1, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
1.0% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule; and 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
- 21 - 
 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 22 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I. 
General 
 
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services) 
 
A. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures  
 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3. and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the 
following additional provisions. 
 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in 
procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
 
(i) 
Bids are advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation. 
 
- 23 - 
 
(ii) 
The bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award 
criteria and bidder qualification criteria. 
 
(iii) 
Bidders are given adequate response time to prepare and submit 
bids (four weeks minimum). 
 
(iv) 
Bids may be submitted, at the bidders option, in person or by 
courier service, and the disclosure of their identity on the outer 
envelope is not grounds for bid rejection. 
 
(v) 
Technical and financial bids are publicly and simultaneously 
opened. 
 
(vi) 
Bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed 
in the bid documents and quantified in monetary terms and 
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder with the lowest 
evaluated responsive bid. 
 
(vii) 
No eligible bidder is precluded from participation. 
 
(viii) 
No domestic preference is applicable to domestic bids. 
 
(ix) 
No foreign bidder is forced to submit a bid in association with 
domestic firms as a condition for bidding. 
 
(x) 
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding 
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding 
procurement must be submitted to, and found acceptable, by the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
Shopping 
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
Section III. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
 
- 24 - 
 
B. 
Other Procedures 
 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
 
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection 
 
 
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 
through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Commercial Practices 
 
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and to be 
financed under Matching Grants made for subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project may 
be procured in accordance with commercial practices set forth in the EMAFII Operations 
Manual. 
 
4. 
Individual Consultants 
 
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV.   
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts and specified matters shall be subject to Prior Review by the 
Bank: 
 
(i) 
each contract for goods and services (other than consultants’ 
services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more;  
 
(ii) 
the first two contracts for goods and services (other consultants’ 
services) procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; 
 
(iii) 
the draft bidding documents for goods to be procured by 
National Competitive Bidding; 
- 25 - 
 
 
(iv) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
 
(v) 
the first two consultants’ contracts to be procured by selection 
based on Consultants Qualifications; 
 
(vi) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more;  
 
(vii) 
all single source selection of consultants; and 
 
(viii) 
amendments to contracts raising the contract value above the 
prior review threshold. 
 
(b) 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 26 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this Agreement 
and for the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, the Implementation Program 
for Parts B, C, D and E of the Project shall consist of the following provisions: 
 
1. 
Responsibility for general policy guidance and overall coordination of the 
carrying out of the Project shall be vested in the Steering Committee, to be chaired by the 
Minister of Commerce or his representative and maintained by the Borrower throughout 
the duration of the Project with membership and terms of reference at all times 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Responsibility for overall supervision of the carrying out of Parts B, C, D and E 
of the Project shall be vested in PCMU, to be maintained by the Borrower throughout the 
duration of the Project with terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank. 
PCMU shall be headed by a Project coordinator and shall ensure that the administrative, 
procurement, disbursement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation and 
reporting arrangements are carried out in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Plan.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) cause COTUNACE to carry out Part B of the Project; 
(b) execute Part C of the Project through INORPI; (c) shall execute Part D of the Project 
through MOC and DGD; and (d) execute Part E of the Project through MOC. 
 
4. 
Responsibility for the supervision and coordination of the carrying out of Part D 
of the Project shall be vested in the Technical Committee, including the Working group 
for E-government, to be maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the 
Project with membership and terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
- 27 - 
 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
- 28 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories  (1),  (2 (a)), (3 (a)) and 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of part 
A of the Project and Categories (2 (b), (c), (d) and (e) and (3 (b), (c), (d) and (e)) set forth 
in said table in respect of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount equivalent 
EUR 2,000,000 in respect of the CEPEX Special Account for Part A of the Project and an 
amount equivalent to EUR 2,000,000 in respect of the Borrower Special Account for 
Parts B, C, D and E of the Project to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
- 29 - 
 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Accounts minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
- 30 - 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
- 31 - 
 
 
 
 
