CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4724-CHA 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Zhejiang Urban Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 2, 2004 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4724-CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 2004, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Zhejiang (as defined in Section 1.02) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to Zhejiang, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Zhejiang (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
- 2 -
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Catchment Management Plan” means the integrated Catchment 
Management Plan dated March 2003 prepared by Ningbo and referred to in paragraph 
8(d) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; said Catchment Management Plan sets forth 
proposed physical interventions and policy instruments to control potentially polluting 
activities in the catchment area for Dongqian Lake. 
(c) 
 “Cicheng” means Cicheng town in the Jiangbei District of Ningbo 
Municipality, and any successor thereto. 
(d) 
 “Cicheng RAP” means  ‘Resettlement Action Plan of the Cicheng Town 
Environment Improvement Project’ dated August 2003, prepared by Ningbo, which sets 
out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation for 
Displaced Persons for Part B of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(e) 
“Complementary Sewer Connection Plan” means the detailed plan dated 
April 2003 established by Ningbo and referred to in paragraph 8(a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, regarding the construction of secondary sewer networks in the South 
Jiangdong District and the Dongqian Lake development zone financed by Ningbo out of 
its own development budget. 
(f) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means 
any of such Displaced Persons. 
(g) 
 “Dongqian Lake IDC” means Dongqian Lake Investment and 
Development Company, a state-owned limited liability company established and 
operating pursuant to its Charter of November 6, 2001, and to Business License No. 
3302001004689, dated November 30, 2001, issued by Ningbo Industrial and Commercial 
Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(h) 
 “Dongqian Lake RAP” means ‘Resettlement Action Plan of the 
Environment Improvement Projects in Dongqian Lake’ dated August 2003, prepared by 
Ningbo, which sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation for Displaced Persons for C of the Project, as well as monitoring and 
- 3 -
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(i) 
 “Environmental Management Plan” means the plan prepared on behalf 
of Zhejiang, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, 
which is an integral part of the Environmental Assessment Report dated July 2003; said 
Plan sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as 
said plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
(j) 
“Fiscal Year” means: (i) in respect of the Borrower, each period from 
January 1 through December 31 of the calendar year; and (ii) in respect of each of 
Zhejiang, the Project Municipalities and the Project Companies, each period from 
January 1 through December 31 of the calendar year.  
(k) 
 “Hangzhou” means Hangzhou Municipality within Zhejiang Province, 
and any successor thereto. 
(l) 
 “Hangzhou RAP” means  ‘Resettlement Action Plan of Hangzhou No. 2 
Refuse Landfill’ dated April 2003, prepared by Hangzhou, which sets out the procedures 
governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation for Displaced Persons for Part 
E of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of 
the Bank. 
(m) 
 “Hangzhou SWC” means Hangzhou Solid Waste Company Limited, a 
state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of 
September 13, 2002, and to Business License No. 3301001006090, dated September 25, 
2002, issued by Hangzhou Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
(n) 
“Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan” means the action plan dated 
June 2003, prepared by Ningbo, and referred to in paragraph 8(c) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, said Action Plan setting forth activities to be carried out by Ningbo to 
control and minimize industrial pollution in Ningbo in order to protect water quality in 
watercourses receiving discharges of industrial wastewater and to ensure the sustainability 
of investments in sewerage systems and in wastewater treatment facilities. 
(o) 
 “Jiangdongnan” means South Jiangdong District of Ningbo, and any 
successor thereto. 
(p) 
 “Jiangdongnan RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan of the 
Jiangdongnan Sewage Treatment Plant and Related Pipelines’ dated September 2003, 
prepared by Ningbo, which sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement and compensation for Displaced Persons for Part A.1 of the Project, as well 
- 4 -
as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(q) 
 “Ningbo” means Ningbo Municipality within Zhejiang Province, and 
any successor thereto.  
(r) 
 “Ningbo SC” means Ningbo Sewerage Company Limited, a state-owned 
limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of November 
6, 2002, and to Business License No. 3302001005053, dated November 18, 2002, issued 
by Ningbo Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(s) 
 “Plan for Housing Upgrading and Conservation” means the plan dated 
June 30, 2003, adopted by Ningbo, and referred to in paragraph 8 (e) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, for the upgrading of housing and conservation of historic structures  
in Cicheng town in Jiangbei District of Ningbo. 
(t) 
 “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Zhejiang of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(u) 
 “Project Municipalities” means, collectively, Ningbo, Shaoxing and 
Hangzhou; and a “Project Municipality” means, individually, any of said Project 
Municipalities. 
(v) 
 “Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the Zhenhai RAP, 
Jiangdongnan RAP, Cicheng RAP, Dongqian Lake RAP, Shaoxing RAP, and Hangzhou 
RAP; and a “Resettlement Action Plan” means, individually, any of said Resettlement 
Action Plans. 
(w) 
Resettlement Policy Framework means the ‘Policy Framework on 
Involuntary Resettlement and Compensations for Land and Other Assets’ dated 
December 2003, adopted by Ningbo and Shaoxing, as said Policy Framework may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association; said Resettlement 
Policy Framework sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of 
resettlement action plans whenever required during the implementation of: (i) in respect 
of Ningbo, the Complementary Sewer Connection Plan in Jiangdongnan and Dongqian 
Lake area; the landfill in Lupu village, and housing renovation in Cicheng town; and (ii) 
in respect of Shaoxing, urban upgrading in Gucheng District beyond the five historic 
precincts in the old town of Shaoxing covered under Part D.1 of the Project.  
(x) 
 “Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of:  
(i) 
Ningbo SC, Parts A, B.1, C.1, F.1, F.3 and G of the Project;  
(ii) 
Dongqian Lake IDC, Part C.2 and G of the Project; and  
- 5 -
(iii) 
Hangzhou SWC, Parts E, F.1 and G of the Project. 
(y) 
 “Respective Project Company” means in respect of: 
(i) 
Ningbo: Ningbo SC and Dongqian Lake IDC; and 
(ii) 
Hangzhou: Hangzhou SWC,  
collectively, referred to as “Project Companies.”  
 
(z) 
 “Respective Resettlement Action Plans” means in respect of: 
(i) 
Ningbo and Ningbo SC: the Zhenhai RAP, the Jiangdongnan 
RAP; the Cicheng RAP, 
(ii) 
Ningbo and Dongqian Lake IDC: the Dongqian Lake RAP;  
(iii) 
Hangzhou and Hangzhou SWC: the Hangzhou RAP; and   
(iv) 
Shaoxing: the Shaoxing RAP. 
(aa) 
 “Shaoxing” means Shaoxing Municipality within Zhejiang Province, 
and any successor thereto.  
(bb) 
 “Shaoxing RAP” means the ‘Resettlement Action Plan of the Shaoxing 
Urban Infrastructure Reconstruction Project’ dated September 2003, prepared by 
Shaoxing, which sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation for Displaced Persons for Part D of the Project, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(cc) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) 
of this Agreement. 
(dd) 
 “Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to 
be entered into between each Project Municipality and its Project Company or Project 
Companies, as the case may be, pursuant to paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and supplements to said agreements; and a “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” 
means, individually, any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements.  
(ee) 
 “Yuan” means the currency of the Borrower. 
(ff) 
 “Zhenhai” means Zhenhai District of Ningbo, and any successor thereto. 
- 6 -
(gg) 
 “Zhenhai RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan of the Zhenhai 
Sewage Treatment Plant and Related Pipelines’ dated September 2003, prepared by 
Ningbo, which sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation for Displaced Persons for Part A.2 of the Project, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Zhejiang and each of the Project 
Municipalities and their Respective Project Companies. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred thirty-three million Dollars ($133,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 (b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in  
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
- 7 -
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollar for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
- 8 -
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Zhejiang 
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
Zhejiang therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable Zhejiang to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Zhejiang 
on the following principal terms:
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the Loan.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
- 9 -
at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance 
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Zhejiang pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Zhejiang to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause Zhejiang to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
- 10 -
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Zhejiang shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.  
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
Zhejiang will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c) 
Any of the parties to any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have 
failed to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
- 11 -
General Conditions, namely, the Project Municipalities and their respective Project 
Company or Project Companies, as the case may be, have each entered into a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank:  
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Zhejiang 
and is legally binding upon Zhejiang in accordance with its terms. 
(b) 
Each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding on said parties in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN 
 
22486 MFPRC CN       (86-10) 68551125 
 
Beijing  
- 12 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
      Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
By 
/s/ Zou Jiayi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  Works  
 
89,480,000 
50% 
(2)  Goods for: 
 
(a) Part E (Hangzhou) of the 
Project 
8,030,000 
(b) Other Parts of the Project 
15,760,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75% 
of local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally 
 
(3) Consultants’ services 
 
7,790,000 
91% 
(4)  Fee 
 
1,330,000 
Amount due under  
Section 2.04 of the 
Loan Agreement 
 
(5)  Unallocated  
 
10,610,000
TOTAL 
 
133,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures. 
- 15 -
(b) 
The term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
(a) 
expenditures under the Project prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000 for expenditures by 
the Project Companies may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 1, 2003; and 
(b) 
expenditures under Category (1) until Zhejiang has entered into a contract 
or contracts with consulting firm or firms, acceptable to the Bank for the provision of 
design review and construction management of the Project and for the provision of 
technical assistance in institutional and financial strengthening. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) 
works under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent each;  
(b) 
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; and 
(c) 
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals, each 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent or $50,000 equivalent, respectively; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist Zhejiang to: (a) improve waste 
management and the urban environment in Ningbo and Hangzhou; and (b) revitalize the 
historic inner cities in Cicheng and Shaoxing to facilitate sustainable development and 
establish a model for conservation of cultural heritage. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A. Wastewater management in the Districts of Jiangdongnan and Zhenhai in Ningbo 
Municipality
1. 
Construction of sewerage infrastructure in Jiangdongnan district, including a 
wastewater treatment plant (secondary treatment) with a capacity of 160,000 m3/d  
2. 
Construction of sewerage infrastructure in Zhenhai district, including a 
wastewater treatment plant (secondary treatment) with an initial capacity of 30,000 m3/d.  
Part B. Infrastructure upgrading in Cicheng Town in the District of Jiangbei in Ninbgo 
Municipality
Carry out the following in the historic town of Cicheng: 
1. 
Construct a sewerage collection network in Cicheng town, including a pumping 
station, a pumping main and treatment facilities, which network will be connected to the 
wastewater treatment plant to be constructed in Jiangdongnan.  
2. 
Upgrade existing roads and the associated underground infrastructure and 
construct a ring road and bridges along the moat  that surrounds Cicheng town and 
rehabilitate the moat by carrying out dredging and repairs of the embankment and flood 
control structures.   
Part C. Wastewater management and road improvements in Dongqian Lake area 
Carry out the following in the Dongqian Lake area in Ningbo, to improve water 
quality and improve access to the Dongqian Lake in order to enhance tourism 
development: 
1. 
Expand the sewerage collection and treatment infrastructure, including 
construction of new sewers, pumping stations and pumping main to connect the sewerage 
system to the wastewater treatment plant to be constructed in Jiangdongnan and provision 
of vehicles to assist in future maintenance of said infrastructure.  
- 17 -
2. 
Expand and rehabilitate roads along the shores of the Dongqian Lake to improve 
access to the lake. 
Part  D. Housing renovation, heritage conservation, and infrastructure upgrading in     
Shaoxing historic city center
1. 
Renovation and upgrading of houses in five historic precincts in the old town of 
Shaoxing; and restoration and rehabilitation of historic and protected structures to prevent 
further structural deterioration and improve amenities of the historic sites for residents 
and tourists.  
2. 
Construction of tertiary and secondary sewers in the small streets of said historic 
precincts to intercept wastewater discharges into canals; and construction of water supply 
and gas pipelines to improve public health and provide a cleaner energy source than 
charcoal.   
3. 
Rehabilitation of the canal system in the historic city-center, including dredging, 
widening, embankment repair and reinstatement of an old canal, all to improve water 
quality through enhanced water circulation and benefit navigation of tour boats; and 
rehabilitation and expansion of the river training works, including pumping stations and 
flow control gates to increase canal flushing.    
4. 
Carrying out repairs and widening of existing roads to improve access for 
emergency services; re-paving of roads with more appropriate stone slabs to enhance 
appearance; construction of new bridges over the new canal section; establishment of 
new parks at relocated factory sites to provide recreation for residents and tourists, and of 
parking facilities for tourists to improve access to the historic sites and precincts.  
Part E. Expansion of landfill facilities in Hangzhou 
Construction of an additional landfill and associated facilities in Hangzhou; 
provision of equipment and vehicles for their operation; and construction of facilities for 
gas recovery and electricity production.   
Part F. Institution development and strengthening 
Carry out capacity development and/or strengthening programs for the following 
agencies and corporations, through a combination of advisory services and training: 
1. 
Develop the institutional capacity of the newly-incorporated Hangzhou SWC and 
Ningbo SC, including capacity in the areas of financial, institutional and operational 
management of a waste management company. 
2. 
Strengthen the capacity of the Project management offices of all Project 
Municipalities to carry out Project design and procurement reviews, construction 
management, and quality assurance.  
- 18 -
3. 
Strengthen the capacity of Ningbo Environmental Protection Bureau and Ningbo 
SC to monitor and manage water pollution, particularly by industries. 
4. 
Strengthen the capacity of Ningbo and Shaoxing to manage the development and 
growth of the tourism industry in a sustainable manner and with the participation of 
stakeholders. 
5. 
Strengthen the capacity of relevant agencies in Cicheng and Shaoxing to 
implement heritage conservation measures and urban upgrading schemes. 
Part G. Resettlement
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009.
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
October 15, 2009 
 
 
 
3,935,000 
April 15, 2010  
 
 
 
3,970,000 
October 15, 2010 
 
 
 
4,000,000 
April 15, 2011  
 
 
 
4,035,000 
October 15, 2011 
 
 
 
4,065,000 
April 15, 2012  
 
 
 
4,100,000 
October 15, 2012 
 
 
 
4,130,000 
April 15, 2013  
 
 
 
4,165,000 
October 15, 2013 
 
 
 
4,200,000 
April 15, 2014  
 
 
 
4,230,000 
October 15, 2014 
 
 
 
4,265,000 
April 15, 2015  
 
 
 
4,300,000 
October 15, 2015 
 
 
 
4,335,000 
April 15, 2016  
 
 
 
4,370,000 
October 15, 2016 
 
 
 
4,405,000 
April 15, 2017  
 
 
 
4,440,000 
October 15, 2017 
 
 
 
4,475,000 
April 15, 2018  
 
 
 
4,510,000 
October 15, 2018 
 
 
 
4,550,000 
April 15, 2019  
 
 
 
4,585,000 
October 15, 2019 
 
 
 
4,620,000 
April 15, 2020  
 
 
 
4,660,000 
October 15, 2020 
 
 
 
4,695,000 
April 15, 2021  
 
 
 
4,735,000 
October 15, 2021 
 
 
 
4,775,000 
April 15, 2022  
 
 
 
4,810,000 
October 15, 2022 
 
 
 
4,850,000 
April 15, 2023  
 
 
 
4,890,000 
October 15, 2023 
 
 
 
4,930,000 
April 15, 2024  
 
 
 
4,970,000 
 
___________ 
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  
 (c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $33,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
- 21 -
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
- 22 -
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
