CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4742 - CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Guangdong Pearl River Delta Urban Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 5, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4742 - CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 2004, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Guangdong Province (Guangdong) with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to 
Guangdong, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
(C) 
the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of Parts B.2, C.1, C.2, D.2 and 
E.4 of the Project; the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in accordance 
with Resolution No. 94 –02 of the Executive Directors dated May 24, 1994, establishing 
the GEF Trust Fund; and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower 
and the Bank acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF (the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate amount of ten 
million Dollars ($10,000,000) (the GEF Trust Fund Grant); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Guangdong 
(the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of shelter, 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets, or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means 
any of such Displaced Persons. 
(c) 
“Environmental Management Plan” and “EMP” mean the plan prepared 
by Guangdong and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, 
which constitutes an integral part of the Environmental Assessment dated February 28, 
2004, prepared by Guangdong; said Plan sets out the environmental protection measures 
in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
the implementation of said Plan, as said Plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank.  
(d) 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the framework dated 
February 28, 2004, prepared by Guangdong and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures for carrying out 
environmental impact assessments and preparing environmental management plans for 
inter-municipal environmental infrastructure sub-projects to be identified under Part C.2 
of the Project, as said Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank.  
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means: (i) in respect of the Borrower, each period from 
January 1 through December 31 of the calendar year; and (ii) in respect of Guangdong 
and Guangzhou, each period from January 1 through December 31 of the calendar year. 
(f) 
“GDEPB” means the Guangdong Environmental Protection Bureau and 
any successor thereto. 
(g) 
“GEF Capital Sub-grants” means grants made under Part C.2 of the 
Project to Participating Entities, out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, to 
support eligible inter-municipal environmental infrastructure facilities, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 13(g)(i) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
-3-
(h) 
“GEF O&M Sub-grants” means grants made under Part C.2 of the 
Project to Participating Entities, out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, to 
support eligible inter-municipal environmental infrastructure facilities, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 13(g)(ii) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
(i) 
“GEF Sub-grants” means, collectively: (i) the GEF Capital Sub-grants 
and (ii) the GEF O&M Sub-grants. 
(j) 
“GHWMC” means Guangzhou Hazardous Waste Management Center, a 
department under Guangzhou Environmental Protection Bureau, responsible for the 
management of hazardous wastes, and any successor thereto. 
(k) 
“GTDC” means the Guangzhou Tunnel Development Company, a state-
owned project management company acting as agent for GSTC in the implementation of 
Part A of the Project. 
(l) 
“GSTC” means Guangzhou Sewage Treatment Company, a state-owned 
limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of December 
3, 2003, and to Business License No. 4401011109816, dated November 27, 2003, issued 
by Guangzhou Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor 
thereto. 
(m) 
“Guangdong” means the Borrower’s Guangdong Province, and any 
successor thereto. 
(n) 
“Guangzhou” means Guangzhou Municipality within Guangdong 
Province, and any successor thereto. 
(o) 
“Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan” means the action plan dated 
November 2003 prepared by Guangzhou, and referred to in paragraph 15 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement, said Action Plan setting forth activities to be carried out by 
Guangzhou to control and minimize industrial pollution in the surface waters of the Pearl 
River Delta  within Guangzhou’s jurisdiction in order for surface waters to meet water 
quality Class-III stipulated in the Borrower’s “Surface Water Environmental Quality 
Standard” (GB3838-88).  
(p) 
“Participating Entities” means municipalities, districts or towns in 
Guangdong which have entered  into agreements with other contiguous municipalities, 
districts or towns to jointly develop, operate and maintain environmental infrastructure  
facilities under Part C.2 of the Project. 
(q) 
“PRDCC” means the Pearl River Delta Clean-up Campaign, 
Guangdong’s wastewater management plan for the Pearl River Delta and adopted by 
Guangdong in October 2002.  
-4-
(r) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Guangdong of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(s) 
“Resettlement Action Plans” and “RAPs” mean, collectively: (i) the 
Resettlement Action Plan for the Dashadi Wastewater Treatment Plant; (ii) the 
Resettlement Action Plan for the Liede III Wastewater Treatment Plant; (iii) the 
Resettlement Action Plan for the Sewerage Network; and (iv) the Resettlement Action 
Plan for the Hazardous Waste Center, all dated March 8, 2004, prepared by Guangzhou 
and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; said Plans set out 
the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, as well as 
administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
Plans, as said Plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
and “Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” mean any of said Resettlement Action Plans 
or RAPs. 
(t) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the policy framework dated 
March 8, 2004, prepared by Guangzhou and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement, which sets out the policies and procedures for the acquisition of 
land and other assets, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, 
and for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required during the 
implementation of the Project, as said Policy Framework may be revised from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank.  
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(v) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between Guangzhou and Guangzhou Sewage Treatment Company pursuant to paragraph 
6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules and supplements to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Guangdong, GDEPB, 
Guangzhou, GHWMC, GSTC, GTDC, and the Participating Entities. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred twenty-eight million Dollars ($128,000,000). 
-5-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
-6-
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Guangdong to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Guangdong therein set 
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable Guangdong to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
otherwise prevent or interfere with such performance. 
-7-
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
Guangdong on the following principal terms:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment from the Special Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the Loan.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Recipient hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Guangdong 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Guangdong to establish and maintain 
a financial management system, including records and accounts, and to prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.  
(b) 
the Borrower shall cause Guangdong to: 
-8-
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.  
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
Guangdong to: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained, 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit  that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph 
(b) of this Section. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Guangdong shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;  
-9-
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
Guangdong will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph (c), the right of 
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Trust Fund Grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of Parts B.2, C.1, C.2, 
D.2 and E.4 of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled 
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of said 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph (c) shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; or 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (c)(i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:‘ 
(a) 
Guangzhou and GSTC have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement;  
(b) 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
-10-
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank:   
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Guangdong, and is legally binding upon Guangdong in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Guangzhou and by GSTC respectively, and is legally binding upon said parties in 
accordance with its terms.  
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
-11-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
      Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
By 
/s/ Zou Jiayi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
-12-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Works: 
 (a) under Part A.1, A.2 and A.3 
 
of the Project  
 
(b) under Part B.1 of the Project 
 
77,400,000 
 
5,300,000 
 
50% 
 
50% 
(2)  Goods under Parts A.1, A.2, 
A.3 and B.1 of the Project 
 
24,770,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75% 
of local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally 
 
(3)  Consultants’ services under 
Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, B.1, E.1, 
E.2 and E.3 the Project 
 
8,900,000 
          91% 
(4)  Training  
 
4,350,000 
        100% 
(5)  Fee  
          1,280,000 
Amount due under  
Section 2.04 of the 
Loan Agreement 
(6) Unallocated 
        6,000,000 
 
 
TOTAL 
 
128,000,000 
 
========== 
 
-13-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures. 
(b) 
The term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
(a) 
expenditures under the Project prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories (1)(a) and (b), and (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after October 1, 2003;  
(b) 
expenditures under Category (1)(a) until GSTC has engaged the services 
of consultant firms for technical assistance for: (i) institutional development and financial 
management; (ii) construction supervision and quality control; and (iii) design review and 
certification, under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory 
to the Bank, and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
expenditures under Category (1)(b) until Guangzhou has engaged the 
services of consultant firms for technical assistance to the GHWMC for: (i) design review 
and certification, and construction supervision; (ii) development of a regulatory and 
institutional framework for waste management; and (iii) preparation of bid documents for 
the selection of an operator of the facility to be constructed under Part B of the Project; 
under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, 
and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) 
works under contracts costing less than $6,000,000 equivalent each;  
(b) 
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each;  
-14-
(c) 
consultants’ services under contracts with (i) firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each, and (ii) individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent, each; 
and 
(d) 
training, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
-15-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to address the 
environmental problems of the Pearl River Delta in Guangdong Province through the 
improvement and rationalization of environmental service delivery based on a regional 
planning approach.   
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Guangzhou Wastewater Management
1. 
Construct a wastewater treatment plant at Dashadi in Guangzhou, with a capacity 
of about 200,000 cubic meters per day (m3/d). 
2. 
Expand the capacity of the Liede III wastewater treatment plant in Guangzhou by 
about 200,000 m3/d. 
3. 
Construct about 500 kilometers (km) of trunk sewers to convey wastewater from 
the drainage catchments of Dashadi, Liede III and other selected drainage catchments. 
4. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
activities to be carried out under this Part A. 
Part B: Hazardous Waste Management
1. 
Construct the first phase of a hazardous waste treatment center in Guangzhou, 
including a pre-treatment center and landfill with a capacity of about 150,000 cubic 
meters. 
2. 
Develop the regulatory and institutional framework for hazardous waste 
management; promote public-private partnership in waste management; and carry out a 
hazardous waste survey and market assessment. 
3. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
activities to be carried out under this Part B. 
Part C: Inter-municipal Environmental Infrastructure
1. 
Develop a policy and institutional framework and guidelines for collaboration 
among contiguous municipalities, districts or towns in environmental infrastructure 
development. 
-16-
2. 
Support 
the 
development 
of 
selected 
inter-municipal 
environmental 
infrastructures. 
3. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
activities to be carried out under this Part C. 
Part D: Water Quality Monitoring
1. 
Develop a water quality monitoring program for the Pearl River Delta. 
2. 
Strengthen the capacity of the Guangdong Environmental Protection Bureau to 
implement the water quality monitoring program and develop a regional environmental 
management framework. 
3. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
activities to be carried out under this Part D. 
Part E: Institutional Strengthening and Training
1. 
Carry out a program to strengthen Project implementation capacity and to 
support the institutional development of environmental infrastructure service entities 
through the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment. 
2. 
Carry out a study on regional planning and metropolitan management of inter-
municipal infrastructure development in Guangdong (in the contiguous areas of 
Guangzhou and Foshan). 
3. 
Carry out a program of public hygiene promotion in selected areas in 
Guangzhou. 
4. 
(a) 
Promote private-public partnership in wastewater management in 
Guangdong; and 
(b) 
Review and update Guangdong’s wastewater management plan for the 
Pearl River Delta. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
-17-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due  
 
 
       (Expressed in Dollars)* 
 
February 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
3,780,000 
August 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
3,810,000 
February 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
3,845,000 
August 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
3,875,000 
February 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
3,905,000 
August 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
3,940,000 
February 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
3,970,000 
August 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
4,005,000 
February 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
4,035,000 
August 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
4,070,000 
February 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
4,100,000 
August 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
4,135,000 
February 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
4,170,000 
August 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
4,205,000 
February 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
4,240,000 
August 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
4,275,000 
February 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
4,310,000 
August 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
4,345,000 
February 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
4,380,000 
August 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
4,415,000 
February 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
4,450,000 
August 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
4,490,000 
February 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
4,525,000 
August 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
4,560,000 
February 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
4,600,000 
August 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
4,635,000 
February 15, 2023 
 
 
 
 
4,675,000 
August 15, 2023 
 
 
 
 
4,715,000 
February 15, 2024 
 
 
 
 
4,750,000 
August 15, 2024 
 
 
 
 
4,790,000 
 
_____________________ 
 
*The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions 
-18-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $10,000,000, to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $6,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
-19-
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
-20-
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
