CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7225-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project)  
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 7, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7225-AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 7, 2004, between the ARGENTINE 
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;  
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has delivered to the Bank a letter dated September 
5, 2003, describing the Borrower’s Maternal-Child Health Insurance Program (the 
Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the 
Borrower’s execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of 
approximately 10 years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Program; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modification set forth below, constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
- 2 -
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Implementation Plan” means each plan referred to in Section 
3.13 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Annual Performance Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement;  
(c) 
“Arg$” means Argentine Peso, the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(d) 
“Authorized Provincial Health Care Providers” means the public and 
private provincial health facilities that meet the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual; 
(e) 
“Capitation Payment” means a financial transfer from the Borrower to 
the Participating Provinces (as hereinafter defined), in an initial amount of Arg$12 per 
person enrolled in the MCHIP (as hereinafter defined) as of each relevant month, for the 
payment of services rendered to Enrolled Population (as hereinafter defined) and 
included in the Nomenclador Unico (as hereinafter defined);
(f) 
“Concurrent Auditor” means the independent auditor mentioned in 
Section 3.10(b)(i) of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  the Project; 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, Capitation Payments and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
- 3 -
(i) 
“Eligible Population” means all uninsured pregnant women up to 45 days 
after delivery or miscarriage, and all uninsured children up to 6 years of age, living 
within the territory of a Participating Province (as hereinafter defined); 
(j) 
 “Eligible Province” means any of the Provinces of Catamarca, Chaco, 
Corrientes, Formosa, Jujuy, Misiones, Salta, Santiago del Estero and  Tucumán;
(k) 
“Enrolled Population” means the Eligible Population that has voluntarily 
enrolled in the MCHIP (as hereinafter defined) in each Participating Province; 
(l) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“INSSJyP” means Instituto Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados 
y Pensionados, the Borrower’s National Institute for Social Services for Retirees, regulated 
by the Borrower’s Law No. 25.615 and the Borrower’s Decree No. 1309/02; 
(n) 
“MCHIP” means the Borrower’s Maternal and Child Health Insurance 
Program (Seguro Materno Infantil), established by article 3 of Decree 2724/2002 and 
implemented through Ministerial Resolution 198 of August 15, 2003; 
(o) 
“MSN” means Ministerio de Salud de la Nación, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Health; 
 
(p) 
“MSP” means Ministerio de Salud Provincial (or its equivalent in each 
Province), each of the Borrower’s Participating Provinces’ Ministries of Health; 
 
(q) 
“National Health Insurance Entities” means the entities referred to in 
Article 1 of the Borrower’s Law 23.660 (Agentes del Seguro Nacional de Salud) and the 
Borrower’s INSSJyP; 
(r) 
“Nomenclador Unico” means the list of eligible health services referred 
to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.07 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Padrón de Obra Social Provincial” means each of the Participating 
Provinces’ enrollment databases containing information regarding individuals and their 
families participating in the Province’s social health insurance scheme; 
- 4 -
(u) 
“Padrón de Obras Sociales Nacionales” means the national enrollment 
database consolidating information regarding individuals and their families participating 
in National Social Health Insurance Entities; 
(v) 
“Participating Province” means any Eligible Province that has fulfilled 
the requirements of the Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual to be eligible to 
participate and receive funds from the Project; 
(w) 
“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(x) 
“PPMU”  means the Provincial units referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(y) 
“Province” means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title 
Two of the Borrower’s Constitution, and the term “Provinces” means all of said political 
subdivisions; 
(z) 
“Provincial Health Care Provider Agreement” means each agreement 
referred to in Section 3.09 (c) of this Agreement; 
(aa) 
“Provincial Operative Guidelines” means the operative guidelines 
referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; 
(bb) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(cc) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B to Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(dd) 
“Trazadoras Matrix”  means the matrix containing ten (10) service 
production goals referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(ee) 
“Umbrella Agreement” means each agreement referred to in Section 3.09 
(a) of this Agreement. 
- 5 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
thirty-five million eight-hundred thousand Dollars ($135,800,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the Capitation Payment, the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
- 6 -
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and to this end shall carry out the Project, through the MSN, with the assistance 
of the Participating Provinces (as provided in the corresponding Umbrella Agreements) 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
- 7 -
financial, health care and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of assisting MSN in the overall management of 
the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain throughout the execution of the Project, 
within MSN, a project management unit (the PMU) with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts and other 
personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b) cause the Participating Provinces, through the Umbrella Agreements, to create and 
maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within the respective MSPs, provincial 
Project management units (the PPMUs), with functions, responsibilities and staff in 
number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to both the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of implementing Part A.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a list 
of eligible health services (the Nomenclador Unico), to be provided by Authorized 
Provincial Health Care Providers hired by the respective PPMUs, acceptable to the Bank; 
and  
 
(b) 
develop a matrix of ten (10) agreed service production goals (the 
Trazadoras Matrix), for the purposes of monitoring such production goals and 
transferring the Capitation Payment on a periodic basis to the Participating Provinces, all 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  
 
- 8 -
Section 3.06.  The Borrower and the Bank shall jointly review once every year 
the Capitation Payments amount, the eligible health services included in the 
Nomenclador Unico and the Trazadoras Matrix and adjust as necessary in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
Section 3.07.  Without limitation of the provisions of  Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with: 
(a) 
an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain, 
inter alia: (i) the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the 
PMU and PPMU responsible for Project coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project; (ii) the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for the Capitation Payments; (iii) 
procedures for procurement of goods and services, as well as for financial management 
and audits of the Project; (iv) the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project; (v) draft models for the Umbrella and Annual Performance Agreements; 
(vi) detailed criteria for the conversion of Eligible Population into Enrolled Population, 
including procedures, activities and monitoring indicators for the enrollment of said 
population. Such criteria shall also ensure adequate and culturally appropriate access by 
indigenous peoples to the MCHIP; and (vii) flow and disbursement arrangements of 
Project funds. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or the Provincial Operative Guidelines, 
or any provision thereof.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this 
Agreement and those of the Operational Manual or the Provincial Operative Guidelines, 
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.08. 
The Borrower shall prepare operative guidelines (the Provincial 
Operative Guidelines), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain those chapters of the 
Operational Manual of direct concern to the Participating Provinces and their role in the 
implementation of the Project. Said operative guidelines shall be an annex to the 
Umbrella Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the 
Participating Provinces.   
Section 3.09. 
For the purposes of implementing Part A.1 of the Project the 
Borrower shall: 
(a) 
enter into an agreement (the Umbrella Agreement) with each 
Participating Province, setting forth the technical, financial, administrative and fiduciary 
aspects of the national and provincial participation in the implementation and use of 
funds of Parts A, B, C, and D of the Project, including the obligation of each of the 
Participating Provinces to make available the Padrón de Obra Social Provincial to the 
Borrower, all in terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.  
- 9 -
(b) 
every year, starting immediately after the Effective Date for the first year 
of the Project, and on January 1st thereafter, enter into a performance agreement (the 
Annual Performance Agreement) with each Participating Province, setting forth annual 
targets for the Trazadoras Matrix, work programs and resource requirements for the 
implementation of  the Project, all in terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;  
(c) 
cause each Participating Province (through the respective Umbrella 
Agreement) to: (i) enter into an agreement with an Authorized Provincial Health Care 
Provider (the Provincial Health Care Provider Agreement), setting forth, inter alia, the 
Participating Provinces’ payment mechanisms with respect to each of the Authorized 
Provincial Health Care Providers; and (ii) ensure that payments from each of the 
Participating Provinces to the Authorized Provincial Health Care Providers are solely in 
payment of services included in the Nomenclador Unico, and in no case said payments 
shall include the payment of salaries, supplies or any other production factor; 
(d) 
cause each Participating Province (through the respective Annual 
Performance Agreement) to set the prices corresponding to all health services or group of 
health services contained in the Nomenclador Unico, in terms satisfactory to both the 
Borrower and the Bank; and 
 (e) 
(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Umbrella 
Agreement and each Annual Performance Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; (ii) 
cause each Participating Province to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each Provincial Health Care Provider Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 
(iii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Umbrella Agreement and/or 
Annual Performance Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.10. 
(a) The Borrower shall make Capitation Payments available to 
an Eligible Province, but only after said Eligible Province has fulfilled the requirements 
set forth in Sections 3.09 (a) and 3.09 (b) of the Loan Agreement in order to become a 
Participating Province. Such Capitation Payments shall be made in the following manner:  
(i) 
during the first six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall disburse 100% of the Capitation Payment amount every 
month immediately after the Participating Province has sent to 
the Borrower the registry with the population enrolled in the 
MCHIP as of the previous month and the Borrower has certified 
and validated said registry; and  
- 10 -
(ii) 
thereafter, said Capitation Payment shall be made in two 
installments: (A) 60% every month, immediately after the 
Participating Province has sent to the Borrower the monthly 
registry with the population enrolled as described in (i) above; 
and (B) the remaining 40% shall be disbursed initially every four 
months, after verification of the Participating Province’s 
performance with respect to the Trazadoras Matrix, as provided 
in the Operational Manual, the Provincial Operative Guidelines 
and the Annual Performance Agreements. The initial 4-months 
period may be modified if necessary, in a manner satisfactory to 
both the Borrower and the Bank.  
(b) 
For the purposes of the certification and validation procedure referred to 
in (a)(i) above, the Borrower shall: (i) appoint and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project, unless the Bank otherwise agrees, an independent auditor (the 
Concurrent Auditor) responsible for performing quarterly (or any other interval 
acceptable to the Bank) audits on the Trazadoras Matrix and the registry of Enrolled 
Population; and (ii) use as support documentation the Padrón de Obra Social Provincial, 
the Padrón de Obras Sociales Nacionales, and the reports provided by the Concurrent 
Auditor, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
(c) 
In case a Participating Province fails to achieve at least four out of the 
ten service production goals included in the Trazadoras Matrix for three consecutive 
four-months periods, the Borrower may suspend the right of said Participating Province 
to receive funds under Part A.1 of the Project. 
Section 3.11. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis the implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
by March and September of each year during the execution of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank a semi-annual report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall request, and based on the monitoring and evaluation carried out pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress of the Project during the six-month period 
preceding the date of such report; 
 
(c) 
include in the progress report to be furnished to the Bank by December 
31, 2006 pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, a report on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project since its beginning and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
its objectives; and 
 
- 11 -
(d) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2007 or such later date as the Bank 
may request, the progress report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.12. 
The Borrower shall conduct a mid-term review with the Bank, 
by not later than March 31, 2007 of the progress of the Project, based on an assessment 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, as well as the reports referred to in 
Section 3.11 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.13. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than November 15 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting November 15, 2004, furnish to the Bank for its 
approval, an annual implementation plan (the Annual Implementation Plan), each said 
plan to include, inter alia: (i) the project activities to be carried out by the Borrower  
during the calendar year following the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the 
procurement plan for each said calendar year; and (b) thereafter implement each said 
Annual Implementation Plan, approved by the Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.14. 
The Borrower shall develop, set up and use a procurement 
information system acceptable to the Bank, to store and periodically update procurement 
information under the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
- 12 -
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each fiscal 
year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.11 the Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the Bank a 
Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
- 13 -
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any Participating Province shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under its Umbrella Agreement and/or any of its 
Annual Performance Agreements, and the Borrower shall have failed to exercise its 
remedies under such Agreements, in which case the Bank may only suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for 
expenditures incurred as payments to or for the benefit of the relevant Participating 
Province(s). 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an event referred to in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall, during a simultaneous period of 90 days, continue with respect to 
all Participating Provinces. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date. Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:  
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted 
by the Borrower; 
(b) 
that the Nomenclador Unico has been approved by the Bank and adopted 
by the Borrower; 
(c) 
that the Trazadoras Matrix has been approved by the Bank and adopted 
by the Borrower; and  
- 14 -
(d) 
that the Annual Implementation Plan for the first year of the Project has 
been approved by the Bank. 
Section 6.02. 
The date of  December 6, 2004 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Production of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1109ADA, Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable address:   
  
   Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA    121942-AR 
     (5411) 43498815 
 
Baires 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Oscar Tangelson 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel Van Trotsenburg 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
   Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in 
to be 
 
Category
Dollars)
Financed
(1) Consultants’ services, 
16,279,000 
95% 
 
including auditing services 
 
  
 
(2) Goods 
 17,273,000 
80% 
 
(3) Training 
3,322,000 
80% 
 
(4) Capitation Payments 
90,400,000 
100% until  
 
disbursements 
 
under this 
 
category have  
 
reached an 
 
amount of US$56 
 
million, 70% until 
 
disbursements  
 
have reached an 
 
amount of US$78 
 
million, and 40% 
 
thereafter. 
 
- 17 -
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
   Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in 
to be 
 
Category
Dollars)
Financed
(5) Operating Costs 
900,000 
75% until  
 
disbursements  
 
under this 
 
category have 
 
reached an 
 
amount of US$ 
 
600,000, 60% 
 
until disbursements 
 
have reached an 
 
amount of US$ 
 
750,000 and 45% 
 
thereafter. 
 
(6) Premia for Interest 
-0-                    Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
 
under Section  
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) Front-end fee 
1,358,000 
Amount due  
 
under Section 
 
2.04 of the  
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
6,268,000 
 
 
_________
TOTAL 
135,800,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “operating costs” means the reasonable cost of recurrent 
expenditures required for the operations of the PMU and other agencies of the Borrower 
involved in Project implementation such as consumable items, utilities and supplies, 
which would not have been incurred absent the Project; and 
(b) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower to finance reasonable transportation costs 
and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities, 
materials and equipment under the Project.  
- 18 -
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $13,000,000 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
March 1, 2004 but not earlier than twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) 
expenditures under Category (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Schedule, 
unless the system referred to in Section 3.14 of this Agreement is in place; and (c) 
expenditures under Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
unless: (i) the Concurrent Auditor has been appointed; and (ii) the prices for health 
interventions to be included in the Nomenclador Unico, as established in Section 3.09(d) 
of this Agreement, have been agreed upon for the relevant Participating Province.  
4. 
The 80% “expenditures to be financed” figure for goods in the second column of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule is set so as to preclude Loan financing of the 
applicable Argentine value added tax (currently set at 21%). Therefore, in those cases 
where the goods procured are exempt from the value added tax (such as when procured 
through a tax-exempt procurement agent), Loan financing for such goods can be 100% 
(net of taxes).   
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this 
Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
- 19 -
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
- 20 -
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 21 -
Annex 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the reduction of the infant and 
maternal mortality rate in the Borrower’s territory, as well as to introduce changes in the 
incentive framework of health care providers in the Borrower’s Participating Provinces, 
through the implementation of the MCHIP. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Implementation of the Maternal-Child Health Insurance Program
1. 
Making of Capitation Payments for MCHIP services. 
2. 
Strengthening of the capacity of authorized Provincial Health Care Providers 
within the Participating Provinces, through the provision of medical equipment, 
ambulances and communication equipment. 
3. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the MSPs, through the provision of 
technical assistance and specialized training. 
4. 
Strengthening of the Authorized Provincial Health Care Providers capacity to 
diagnose and deliver the eligible health services included in the Nomenclador Unico,
through the provision of specialized training, including training on, inter alia, the use of 
specialized equipment, technical maternal-child care practices, and adaptation of 
practices to the needs of indigenous peoples. 
5. 
Upgrading and expanding of the MSN and MSPs information systems for the 
monitoring and implementation of the MCHIP, through the provision of technical 
assistance and acquisition and use of specialized information technology equipment. 
Part B: Strengthening National and Provincial Ministries of Health Stewardship Capacity
Strengthening of the capacity of the MSN and the MSPs to accommodate the 
demands generated by the MCHIP, through: (i) the provision of technical assistance; (ii) 
the preparation of strategic studies required for improving health policy; (iii) the purchase 
and use of office equipment; and (iv) the provision of specialized training.  
- 23 -
Part C: Communications and Community Outreach
Dissemination of information about the Project’s activities in the Participating 
Provinces directly benefiting from the Project, as well as the promotion of Eligible 
Population’s enrollment in the MCHIP, with special attention to the dissemination of 
information regarding services available to indigenous peoples groups, through the 
provision of technical assistance for the development and implementation of a radio, 
television and other media campaigns,  training and organization of workshops.  
Part D: Program Monitoring, Evaluation and Concurrent Auditing
Strengthening of the capacity of the MSN and the MSPs to monitor, evaluate and 
audit the MCHIP, through the provision of technical assistance and support for the 
carrying out of auditing services under the Project, purchasing of software and 
equipment, and the provision of specialized training. 
Part E: Project Management and Administration
Strengthening of the PMU and participating PPMUs, through the provision of 
technical assistance and the financing of operating costs.  
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Payment Date
(Installment Share
Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2009 through February 15, 2019 
       5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
- 25 -
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable contracts for the provision of goods shall be grouped 
into bid packages, each estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C: Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $500,000 per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
- 27 -
2. 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of  $100,000 or less per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
A plan setting forth the contracts for the goods required to carry out the Project 
during the initial period of at least 18 months shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of  Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Such 
plan shall list the proposed methods for procurement of each contract, as permitted under 
this Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement, and the related Bank review procedures.  The 
Borrower shall update such plan annually or as needed throughout the duration of the 
project, always covering the next 18 months period of project implementation.  Any 
revision proposed to such plan shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior approval.  
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said Appendix 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to: (a) all contracts or bid packages for goods procured under 
Part B of this Section; and (b) the first contract or bid packages for goods procured under 
Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
- 28 -
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants estimated to cost $500,000 or less, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Least-cost Selection
Contracts of a standard/routine nature, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent,  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines. 
3. 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
- 29 -
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Such plan shall set forth: (a) the 
particular contracts for consulting services required to carry out the project during an 
initial period of 18 months; (b) the proposed methods for selection of consultant services; 
and (c) related Bank review procedures.  The plan shall be updated  annually or as needed  
throughout the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Bank. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $20,000 or more, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval and the contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
With respect to: (a) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (b) the first two 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or less, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $20,000 or more, the terms of reference shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval and the contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given. 
 
- 30 -
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
