CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7205-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Laguna De Bay Institutional Strengthening and Community Participation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 26, 2004 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7205-PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has requested the Government of the Netherlands 
(The Netherlands) to provide additional financing assistance towards financing the 
Project and by, an agreement of even date herewith between the Laguna Lake 
Development Authority (LLDA) and the Bank as administrator of those grant funds (the 
Netherlands Grant Agreement), The Netherlands is agreeing to provide such assistance in 
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to five million Dollars ($5,000,000) (the 
Netherlands Grant), to assist in financing Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Netherlands Grant Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Central Bank of the Republic of 
the Philippines, and any successor thereto; 
(b) 
“Barangay” means an administrative unit within a municipality and 
“Barangays” means, collectively, the plural thereof; 
(c) 
“DOF” means the Borrower’s Department of Finance or any successor 
thereto; 
- 2 -
(d) 
“DENR” means the Borrower’s Department of Environment and Natural 
Resources or any successor thereto; 
(e)  
“Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework” means the protocol 
adopted as part of the Operations Manual by LLDA on October 10, 2003, that sets forth 
procedures and standards to ensure that environmental and social impacts are addressed 
by LGUs and LLDA in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, as such 
framework may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank; 
(f) 
“Environmental User Fee System” and the acronym “EUFS” mean the 
program carried out by LLDA to implement a charge levied by LLDA on polluters in the 
Laguna de Bay Watershed; 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Institutional Memorandum of Agreement” means the memorandum of 
agreement entered into among DOF, DENR, and LLDA on October 19, 2003, pursuant to 
Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;  
(i) 
“Laguna de Bay Watershed” means the area of land within which water 
drains to the Laguna de Bay; 
(j) 
“LIDO” means the Borrower's Letter of Institutional Development 
Objectives dated November 4, 2003, to the Bank that provides the policy and institutional 
framework for the Project and confirms the Borrower’s long-term strategy for the 
institutional arrangements in the Laguna de Bay watershed; 
(k) 
“LLDA’s Re-engineering Program” means the program of actions to be 
implemented by LLDA for the purpose of improving LLDA’s effectiveness and 
efficiency as a integrated watershed management agency, approved by LLDA’s Board of 
Directors on September 29, 2001 and referred to in the LIDO and in paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 4 to the Netherlands Grant to this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Local Government Unit” and the acronym “LGU” mean a local 
government unit which is a political subdivision of the Borrower at the provincial, city, 
municipal or Barangay level, and “Local Government Units” and the acronym “LGUs” 
mean, collectively, the plural thereof; 
(m) 
“Micro-Watershed” means a subdivision of the Laguna de Bay 
Watershed that consists of a smaller catchment or drainage area designated as a Micro-
Watershed by LLDA for purposes of better resource management and conservation, and 
“Micro-Watersheds” mean, collectively, the plural thereof; 
(n) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Framework” means the framework adopted 
by LLDA on October 10, 2003, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist LLDA with monitoring 
and evaluation of Project implementation in accordance with the performance indicators 
- 3 -
set forth in Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement, as such framework may be amended from 
time to time in agreement with the Bank; 
(o) 
“MDFO” means the Borrower’s Municipal Development Fund Office or 
any successor thereof; 
(p) 
"MDFO-PGB" means the MDFO Policy Governing Board established 
pursuant to Section 4 of the Borrower’s President's Decree No. PD-1914 dated March 29, 
1984, and any successor thereto; 
(q) 
“NG-LGU Cost Sharing Scheme” means the co-payment scheme 
approved by the NEDA Board and effective by January 1, 2003 and updated from time to 
time, for the finance of eligible Subprojects, in which LGUs will need to provide equity 
in the range of 10 to 20% to complement the amount to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, through a combination of Subgrants and Subloans, depending on the income 
class of the respective LGU; 
(r) 
“NEDA” means the Borrower’s National Economic Development 
Authority established under Executive Order No. 230 of 1987, and any successor thereto; 
(s) 
“Operations Manual” and the acronym “OM” mean the manual adopted 
by the Borrower and LLDA on October 10, 2003, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist both 
the Borrower and LLDA in the implementation of the Project, through the description of, 
inter alia, procurement procedures to be followed by LLDA and by LGUs (including the 
special provisions on national competitive bidding procedures), as set forth in Annex 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and Schedule 3 of the Netherlands Grant Agreement; 
reporting requirements, financial management procedures, including audit procedures to 
be followed by LLDA and by LGUs, as set forth in Article IV to this Agreement and 
Section 3.03 of the Netherlands Grant Agreement, as the case may be; and environmental 
and social procedures and standards under the Environmental and Social Safeguards 
Framework to be followed by LLDA and by LGUs, as set forth in paragraph 4(e) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank; 
(t) 
“ PCO” means the Project coordination office established under LLDA 
Memorandum Order No. 2003-53 and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the Netherlands Grant Agreement; 
(u) 
“Project Implementation Plan” and the acronym “PIP” mean the plan 
adopted by LLDA on October 10, 2003, to assist LLDA and LGUs in the implementation 
of the Project, which includes the capacity building plan, the Operations Manual, and the 
Monitoring and Evaluation Framework, collectively; 
(v) 
“River Council” and  the acronym “RC” mean a non-profit entity 
registered in the Borrower’s Security and Exchange Commission and operating within a 
Micro-Watershed in the Laguna de Bay Watershed to promote multi-sector partnership 
between the government and the private sector for the protection, rehabilitation and 
sustainable development of the natural environment in the Laguna de Bay Watershed, 
- 4 -
specifically the tributary river systems that drain into the Laguna de Bay, and “River 
Councils” and the acronym “RCs” mean, collectively, the plural thereof; 
(w) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(x)  
“Subgrant” means a grant made by MDFO under Part A.2 of the Project 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to an LGU, under the provisions of a Subproject 
Agreement, this Agreement and the NG-LGU Cost Sharing Scheme, to finance in part the 
carrying out of a Subproject, and “Subgrants” means, collectively, the plural thereof; 
(y) 
“Subloan” means a loan made by MDFO under Part A.2 of the Project 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to an LGU, under the provisions of a Subproject 
Agreement, this Agreement and the NG-LGU Cost Sharing Scheme, to finance in part the 
carrying out of a Subproject, and “Subloans” means, collectively, the plural thereof; 
(z) 
“Subproject” means a demand-driven environmental protection project 
carried out by an LGU under Part A of the Project and financed in part out of the proceeds 
of a Subloan or a Subgrant as the case may be, and “Subprojects” means, collectively, the 
plural thereof;  
(aa)  
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
MDFO and an LGU for the carrying out of a Subproject, and “Subproject Agreements” 
means, collectively, the plural thereof; and 
(bb) 
"TRP" means the Borrower's Technical Review Panel established under 
DENR Administrative Order No. 2003-48, and any successor thereto. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to LLDA and to Participating 
LGUs. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Dollars ($5,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
Subloans and Subgrants made under Part A.2 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for an eligible Subproject and in respect of which the 
- 5 -
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (ii) the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iii) any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the 
General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically 
authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions up to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
- 6 -
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion” as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall: (i) carry out Part A.2 of the Project through 
MDFO; and (ii) cause LLDA to carry out Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project, in 
accordance to the provisions of the Institutional Memorandum of Agreement, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices and sound environmental and social standards acceptable to the 
Bank, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the execution of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;  
(b) 
through MDFO, carry out Part A.2 of the Project and shall cause LLDA 
to perform Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project in accordance with: (A) the 
- 7 -
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (B) the 
Operations Manual. 
(c) 
shall enter into an Institutional Memorandum of Agreement with DOF, 
DENR and LLDA, setting forth their respective responsibilities for the implementation of 
the Project , under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;  
(d) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the Institutional 
Memorandum of Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Institutional Memorandum of Agreement, or any provision thereof. In case of any 
conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Institutional 
Memorandum of Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for Part A.2 of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Annex 1 to Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall and shall cause LLDA to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall and shall cause LLDA to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
- 8 -
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other  
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in  scope and  detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit  of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph C(1) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part A.2 of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of Part A.2 of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
Project implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A.2 of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
- 9 -
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part A of the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Republic Act No. 4850 of the Borrower (“The Laguna Lake 
Development Authority Act of 1966”), as amended by Presidential Decree No. 813 
(October 17, 1975) and Executive Order No. 927 (December 16, 1983), shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of LLDA to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower has amended, suspended, abrogated or waived the 
LLDA’s Re-engineering Program, or any provision thereof without the concurrence of 
the Bank.  
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of Parts A.1, A.3 and B 
of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Netherlands 
Grant Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
the Netherlands Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
Parts A.1, A.3 and B of the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
 Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraph (c)(i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section. 
- 10 - 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower, through DENR, has adopted the LLDA’s Re-engineering 
Program; and 
(b) 
LLDA has commenced implementation of the second phase of its Re-
engineering Program, as described in LIDO. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Institutional Memorandum of 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 
Roxas Blvd. 
 
Manila, Philippines 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN 
 
 
 
 
(63-2) 526-9990 
 
Manila 
 
- 11 - 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
 
 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Manila, Republic of the Philippines , as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By 
/s/ Juanita D. Amatong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Robert V. Pulley 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 12 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 
Loan (Expressed 
Expenditures 
 
Category
in Dollars)
Financed
(1) Subgrants and Subloans 
4,950,000 
100 % of amounts of  
 
Subloans and Subgrants 
 
Disbursed. 
 
(2) Front-end fee 
50,000 
Amount due under Section 
 
2.04 of this Agreement 
 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due under Section 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
2.09 (c) of this Agreement 
 
Collars 
 
TOTAL 
5,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for sub-loans and sub-grants in an 
amount of less than $300,000 each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 13 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve the environment 
quality of the Laguna de Bay Watershed.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Micro-watershed Environmental Interventions
Carrying out a program of environmental management and improvement of the 
Laguna de Bay watershed at the micro-watershed level, said program consisting of: 
1. 
Preparation of small-scale investment sub-projects which are parts of an 
integrated program at the micro-watershed level, in waste management and sanitation, 
natural resource development and management, eco-tourism, soil erosion and localized 
flood prevention;  
2. 
Provision of Subloans and Subgrants to selected LGUs for the implementation of 
the Subprojects; and 
3. 
Monitoring and supervision of the implementation of the Subprojects referred to 
in paragraph 2 above. 
Part B: Institutional Development
Carrying out a program to strengthen institutions and develop instruments to 
effectively manage the Laguna de Bay Watershed environment, said program consisting 
of: 
1. 
Enhancement of the capacity of the Laguna Lake Development Authority, 
through: (a) the development, piloting and strengthening of regulatory instruments and 
approaches to control environmental pollution and degradation; (b) the strengthening of 
its policy and planning capacity; (c) the development and implementation of information, 
education and communication programs; and (d) the formulation of a strategy for trunk 
infrastructure development; 
- 14 - 
2. 
Development of the environmental protection and management capacity of 
stakeholders in the micro-watersheds, through: (a) the preparation, on a participatory 
basis, of about twenty-four Laguna micro-watershed environmental action plans; and (b) 
provision of training and skill development assistance to LGUs, River Councils and 
community groups within the Laguna de Bay Watershed;  
3. 
Provision of support for Project coordination and management; and 
4. 
Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Framework, and dissemination of 
lessons learnt. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2008. 
- 15 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2011 through October 15, 2022 
4.17% 
 
On April 15, 2023 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
- 16 - 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 17 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause LLDA to maintain until completion of the 
Project, the PCO under the direction of an assistant general manager and headed by a 
Project coordinator, to be responsible for day to day management of the implementation 
of their respective Parts of the Project, including procurement and financial management; 
said Unit to be provided with adequate resources, and staffed with qualified personnel in 
adequate number, including inter alia, two assistant project managers for technical and 
operational support functions, a procurement specialist, a financial management 
specialist, a social safeguards specialist, an environmental safeguards specialist and two 
technical support staff, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 3.01 (a)(i) of this Agreement and Part A.2 of the Project, 
and without limitation thereto: 
A. 
The Borrower shall: (a) cause LGUs to propose and prepare Subprojects; (b) 
cause LLDA to select and screen said Subprojects; (c) through TRP, appraise and endorse 
the technical, environmental and financial viability of said Subprojects; (d) through 
MDFO-PGB approve said Subprojects; (e) thereafter, through MDFO, make Subloans 
and Subgrants, to eligible LGUs, to finance said Subprojects; and (f) cause LLDA to 
monitor and submit the necessary reports related to said Subprojects, all in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures, and on terms and conditions set forth in the Operations 
Manual, including the following: 
Subproject criteria
1. 
A Subproject may be selected and approved for financing only if:  
(a) 
 it is incorporated into an integrated environmental management program 
for a micro-watershed within the Laguna de Bay Watershed, said program as developed 
through a Laguna de Bay Micro-watershed Environmental Action Plan; and 
(b) 
the respective LGU, with the assistance of LLDA, has completed a 
feasibility study thereof.  
2.  
(a) The first six Subprojects and (b) any Subproject where the aggregate amount 
of Subloan and Subgrant for the financing thereof is estimated to be equal to or more than 
$300,000 equivalent shall be submitted to the Bank for its no objection, prior to approval 
of any Subloan and Subgrant to finance the relevant Subprojects. 
3. 
In case a Subproject has been found to be feasible and the LGU is able to comply 
with the borrowing capacity requirement set by the Borrower, and thereafter the LGU 
does not elect to proceed with the implementation of said Subproject, the Borrower shall 
cause LLDA to require said LGU to refund the cost of the services rendered for the 
feasibility studies related to said Subproject. 
- 18 - 
Eligibility of LGUs
3. 
An LGU may be eligible to receive financing for its Subproject only if: 
 
(a) 
it has provided a written commitment to the implementation of the 
integrated environmental management program for its respective micro-watershed and of 
its respective Subproject therein; 
(b) 
it has entered into a memorandum of agreement with all other LGUs 
covered by the same integrated environmental management program, and with LLDA 
and MDFO, for the implementation of said program and its respective Subproject; and 
(c) 
it has complied with the Borrower’s borrowing capacity requirement. 
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Agreements
4. 
In respect of each eligible Subproject the Borrower, through MDFO, shall enter 
into a Subproject agreement with the relevant LGU, whereby the Borrower shall obtain 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including without 
limitation the rights to: 
 
(a) 
require the LGU to carry out its respective Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency, and in accordance with appropriate managerial, technical and financial 
practices, and sound social and environmental standards acceptable to the Borrower and 
to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
require said LGU to establish prior to disbursement of the Subloan and 
Subgrant and thereafter, until completion of its respective Subproject, maintain a 
Subproject management team with responsibilities and adequate resources satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Bank, and managed and staffed with qualified personnel in 
adequate number to manage the implementation of its respective Subproject. 
 
(c) 
require said LGU to: (i) establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, adequate to reflect, separately, the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to its respective Subproject; (ii) have the records and 
accounts and financial statements referred to in clause (i) above for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) furnish to 
the Borrower and the Bank, copies of the financial statements referred to in clause (i) 
above as so audited together with an opinion on such statements, records and accounts 
and report of such audit by said auditors; 
 
(d) 
require that the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Subloan and Subgrant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex 1 to this Schedule 4 and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the respective Subproject; 
- 19 - 
(e) 
require said LGU to carry out the Environmental and Social Safeguards 
Framework in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including, whenever required pursuant 
to said Framework, to prepare and implement an environmental management plan, 
resettlement action plan and program of consultation with and informed participation by 
indigenous peoples, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(f) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with representatives of the Bank the goods 
and the sites, works, plans and construction included in the respective Subproject, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(g) 
require said LGU to submit a plan and take all necessary action, 
including the provision of funding and other resources for the operation and maintenance 
of its respective Subproject in accordance with appropriate technical, financial, 
administrative, social and environmental standards satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
(h) 
require said LGU to provide the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank may reasonably request relating to the foregoing 
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of said LGU and to the 
benefits to be derived from its respective Subproject; and 
(i)  
suspend or terminate the right of said LGU to the use of the proceeds of 
the Subloan and Subgrant upon failure of said LGU to perform its obligation under its 
respective Subproject Agreement with the Borrower, through MDFO. 
B. 
To assist the Participating LGUs in planning, prioritizing, designing and 
implementing their respective Subprojects, the Borrower shall, and shall cause LLDA to, 
take all necessary action and provide sufficient resource to: 
1. 
support the preparation of Laguna de Bay Micro-watershed Environmental 
Action Plans with the participation of the relevant LGUs, River Councils, community 
groups and other stakeholders within such micro-watersheds; 
2. 
strengthen the capacity of the LGU staff in, inter alia, environmental 
management, watershed monitoring, social safeguards, and project management, 
operation and maintenance, including financial management and procurement; and to this 
end, to provide training to said staff in accordance with a training program satisfactory to 
the Bank; 
3. 
assist the LGUs in the preparation of feasibility studies for their respective 
Subprojects;  
4. 
monitor the LGUs in the implementation of their respective Subprojects, 
including in the procurement of goods, works and services, supervision of construction, 
the preparation and carrying out of the operation and maintenance plan of their respective 
Subprojects.  
- 20 - 
C. 
Monitoring and Reporting
1. 
The Borrower shall cause LLDA to: 
 
(a) 
maintain, and cause to be maintained, policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank and set forth in Schedule 6 of this Agreement, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank by January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing July 31, 2004, semi-
annual reports in each case integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph and consolidating 
therewith the reports to be prepared and submitted by LLDA pursuant to paragraph 10(b) 
of Schedule 4 to the Netherlands Grant Agreement, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of each such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
promptly review with the Bank each report referred to in sub-paragraph 
(b) above, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
implementation of the Project and the achievements of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of each said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
- 21 - 
Annex 1 to Schedule 4 
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services 
 for Sub-projects under Part A.2 of the Project 
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $360,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, and the provisions of Annex 2 to 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.    
2. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $425,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines 
3. 
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank. 
- 22 - 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,235,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully.   
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to (i) each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) the first contract for goods or works to be 
procured in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of Part C above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for goods or works to be procured in 
accordance with each of the procedures referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Part C above, 
the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the LGU shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the LGU shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
- 23 - 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for construction supervision and monitoring, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.     
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. 
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.   
- 24 - 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
- 25 - 
Annex 2 to Schedule 4 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
With respect to goods and works to be procured by LGUs in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part C of Annex 1 to Schedule 4, the National 
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures of the Borrower shall apply, except that, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Bank in writing, the following procedures shall apply: 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) opportunities shall be advertised in 
national newspapers of general circulation, with sufficient time for bidders to prepare 
offers, which shall not be less than 30 days, unless a different time is specifically agreed 
upon by the Bank.  Posting shall also be done in the Government Electronic Procurement 
System (GEPS) or the Procuring Entity’s website.  
2. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors from eligible countries shall be allowed to 
participate, if interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint 
ventures with, local firms.  However, joint ventures will be encouraged. 
3. 
Eligibility screening may be carried out prior to bidding with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
4. 
If any bidder is to be denied access to the bidding process for reasons unrelated 
to its financial and technical qualifications to perform the contract, prior concurrence of 
the Bank shall be sought. 
5. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with the prior concurrence of the Bank in 
advance of bidding. The Approved Budget Estimate may be disclosed in the 
advertisement or in the bidding documents. 
6. 
The Bank’s domestic preferences shall not be applied in the evaluation of bids, 
and other preferences in effect in the Philippines shall also not be used, except with the 
prior concurrence of the Bank. 
7. 
Price negotiation shall not be allowed.  However, in the case of a budget 
limitation, an adjustment in the quantities of goods or the scope of work may be agreed 
upon, subject to the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
8. 
Bid opening shall be open to those who wish to attend, and the deadline for 
submission of bids shall be the same as that for bid opening.  All bids received on time 
shall be opened and read publicly. 
9. 
Within 72 hours from bid opening, but prior to bid evaluation, a copy of the 
certified minutes of bid opening shall be furnished to the Bank, which shall contain the 
following: (a) names of the bidders provided with bid documents; (b) original amount 
(unevaluated) of the bid of each bidder, as read; (c) date, time and place of bid opening; 
(d) summary of bid proceedings; and (e) names of the bidders’ representatives and other 
persons present. 
- 26 - 
10. 
Suppliers and contractors shall not be required to purchase only local goods or 
supplies, or to hire local labor, except for unskilled labor. 
11. 
Explicit bid evaluation criteria shall be set forth in the bid documents based on 
monetarily quantifiable elements.  
12. 
Modifications exceeding 15% of the contract amount and material changes in the 
conditions during implementation require prior concurrence of the Bank. 
13. 
For foreign suppliers and contractors, prior registration (such as with the Bureau 
of Food and Drugs for the registration for drugs, agency accreditation, etc.), licensing 
(such as licensing by the Philippine Contractors Accreditation Board, etc.), and/or other 
government authorizations (such as a Mayor’s permit, etc.), shall not be a requirement for 
purposes of participating in bidding competitions. Such registration, licensing and/or 
other government authorizations may, however, be required from the selected bidder as a 
condition of signing of the contract, and the Borrower shall not be stopped from asserting 
such requirement where this is mandated under national law.  
14. 
Bid and performance securities shall be specified in the bidding documents, 
which may be in the form of a certified check, letter of credit, or bank guarantee from a 
reputable bank.  
15. 
To obtain the best market prices available, open competitive bidding shall be 
maximized.  For this purpose, requirements shall not include restrictive importation 
permits from private associations or protective preferences for Philippine Flag vessels.  
16. 
Two-envelope system procedures shall not be used unless prior concurrence by 
the Bank has been obtained. 
17. 
Privileges granted to Provincial bidders to match the lowest bid submitted by a 
contractor with the principal office address outside the province in which the project is 
located, shall not be allowed. 
18. 
The use of GEPS for procurement of goods may be allowed with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
- 27 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Part A.2 of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $150,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments in respect of Part A.2 of the Project entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $360,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
- 28 - 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Category minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments in respect of 
Part A of the Project entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
- 29 - 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
- 30 - 
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
Baseline 
Start 2004 
Mid-Term 
Review 
Project 
Completion 
Planning: Integrated and decentralized watershed-wide policy making and planning 
1.  Laguna de Bay Watershed Environmental Action Plans 
a. 
Conduct of LEAP 
b. 
LEAPs adopted and incorporated in watershed-
wide and LGU level planning 
 
4
2
22-24 
14-16 
 
-
18-20 
2.  Improved data management systems (EUF, Expanded 
DSS/Shoreland, Financial Management, Legal,  
M & E) 
 
1
2-3 
 
4-5 
3.  Annual Publication of Laguna de Bay Environment 
Monitor 
-
3
5
Regulatory: Modernized regulatory and economic instruments to achieve higher level of performance of 
stakeholders 
1.  Increased coverage of EUFS 
 
 
 
a.  Increase in the number of establishments covered by  
 
EUF 
b.  Parameters introduced and operational  
 
1000 
 
1
1065-1080 
 
2
1380-1400 
 
3
2.  % reduction in BOD loading of all regulated sources 
and parameters 
 
202.2 mt1
0
At least 10% 
Revenue Management: Improved revenue management and leverage investments by national government 
agencies, local governments, private sector and communities to improve the environmental quality of Laguna de 
Bay watershed 
1.   Increased revenue from EUFS and fishpens 
55million2
10-15% 
16-25% 
2.  Revenues reinvested in environmental projects through 
PDF and other instruments by LGUs and private sector, 
(million Peso) 
 
-
12-15 million 
 
16-18 million 
River Councils and Communities: Strengthened and institutionalized engagement of civil society in the River 
Councils (RC) as a consultative, advisory and advocacy group in micro-watershed protection and development. 
An autonomous, sustainable and organizational mature 
network of non-profit organizations, civil society-led, 
actively pursuing conservation, protection and 
restoration activities at the micro-watershed level. 
 
(Detailed baseline data to be determined during the 
“Organizational Maturity Assessment Survey”) 
1 RC office 
established 
and 24 RCs at 
various stages 
of 
organizational 
maturity 
 
4-6 RC Offices 
established 
under civil 
society 
leadership 
 
10-12 RC 
Offices 
established 
under civil 
society 
leadership 
 
Annual Conference/learning forum 
-
3
5
- 31 - 
Baseline 
Start 2004 
Mid-Term 
Review 
Project 
Completion 
Local Government: Improved responsiveness of LGUs towards Laguna de  Bay watershed environmental 
problems 
1.  Number of SB resolutions related to watershed 
management, approved and/or enforced 
 
2
14-16 
 
18-20 
2.  Signing of sub-project loan agreement 
- 
18-20 
- 
3.  Sub-project completed 
- 
2-4 
18-20 
4.  Disbursement of Loan Proceeds 
- 
21-23% 
85-90% 
 
