CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4762 IND 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Government Financial Management and Revenue Administration Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 22, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4762 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, 
datedSeptember 24, 2004, describing a program being undertaken by the Borrower 
designed to implement policy and process reforms to strengthen efficiency, governance 
and accountability in public financial management and the revenue administration (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such program;  
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans and credits over a period of 
approximately twelve (12) years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of 
the Program;  
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, which project is an integral part of the 
Program; 
(D) 
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Development Credit 
Agreement the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in a principal amount 
equivalent to three million four hundred and ten thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 3,410,000) (the Credit);  
(E) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) are made;  
(F) 
the Borrower has also requested that additional financial assistance 
towards the financing of the Project be provided out of grant trust funds provided by 
Japan and administered by the Bank, and by the Japan Grant Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Republic of Indonesia and the Bank acting as administrator of said 
trust funds, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in a principal amount 
equivalent to five million Dollars ($5,000,000); and 
– 2 –
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
(b) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
“(c)  
Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective 
obligations 
under 
the 
Loan 
Agreement 
and 
the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Bank Indonesia” means the Borrower’s central bank, and any successor 
thereto. 
(b) 
“BAPPENAS” means the Borrower’s National Development Planning 
Agency, and any successor thereto. 
– 3 –
(c) 
“CHU” means the complaints handling unit established pursuant to 
Ministerial Decree No. 401/KM.1/2004, and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 of 
this Agreement, responsible for monitoring and processing complaints related to Project 
implementation. 
(d) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement. 
(e) 
“DGCE” means the Directorate General of Customs and Excise of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto. 
(f) 
“DGT” means the Directorate General of Tax of the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Finance, and any successor thereto. 
(g) 
“DPR” means the Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat, the  House of 
Representatives of the Republic of Indonesia. 
(h) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(i) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(k) 
“Governance and Accountability Action Plan” means the action plan for 
ensuring appropriate accountability, transparency and integrity in the Borrower’s 
implementation of the Project, adopted by Decree S-001/KP-1/GFMRAP/2004 issued by 
the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance, as such action plan may be amended 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(l) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto. 
(m) 
“Japan Grant Agreement” means the agreement for the Project of even 
date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank acting as administrator of Japan grant 
funds, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
annexes and agreements supplemental to the Japan Grant Agreement. 
– 4 –
(n) 
“Japan Grant” means the grant made available to the Borrower pursuant 
to the terms of the Japan Grant Agreement. 
(o) 
“NPPO” means the Borrower’s National Public Procurement Office 
(Lembaga Pengembangan Kebijakan Pengadaan Pemerintah) to be established by 
Presidential decree in accordance with the provisions of Keppres 80/2003. 
(p) 
 “PIU” means the structural unit in each implementing agency for the 
Project, designated pursuant to the provisions of Ministerial Decree No. 402/KM.1/2004 
and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,  responsible for the 
budget, work-plan, procurement, financial management, reporting and other 
implementation support activities for the sub-Part of the Project for which such agency is 
responsible. 
(q) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 27, 2004 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
(r) 
“Project Preparation Advances” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreements signed on behalf of 
the Bank on December 16, 2003, and May 28, 2004, and on behalf of the Borrower on 
December 24, 2003, and June 7, 2004, respectively. 
(s) 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee established by Ministerial 
Decree, No. 401/KM.1/2004, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, responsible to the Minister of Finance for overall project implementation and 
coordination through supervision and policy guidance to achieve the objective of the 
Program. 
(t) 
“PSSU” means the Project Support and Services Unit established within 
the 
Directorate 
General 
of 
the 
Treasury, 
MOF, 
by 
Ministerial 
Decree 
No. 402/KM.1/2004, and referred to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to 
provide administrative, logistical, procurement and financial management support for 
overall Project implementation, and to coordinate with designated leaders (“Penanggung 
Jawab”) for each sub-Part  of the Project.  
(u) 
“PWC” means the Project Working Committee established by 
Ministerial Decree 401/KM.1/2004  and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement,  to coordinate and oversee preparation and implementation of each sub-Part 
of the Project, monitor and evaluate Project implementation, periodically report progress 
– 5 –
to the PSC, and monitor the implementation of the Governance and Accountability 
Action Plan. 
(v) 
“SPAN” means “Sistem Perbendaharaan dan Anggaran Negara”, the 
integrated state treasury payment and budget preparation system to be established under 
Part A.3 of the Project. 
(w) 
Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
(x) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
(y) 
“Tax Court” means the Tax Court of Indonesia, established pursuant to 
the provisions of Law 14/2002. 
(z) 
“Treasury Single Account” means the consolidated treasury account to 
be established by the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance under Part A.3 of the Project in 
Bank Indonesia through which all treasury operations of MOF are to be carried out. 
(aa) 
“TWGs” means the Technical Working Groups established pursuant to 
Ministerial Decree No. 401/KM.1/2004  and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, to provide technical support and guidance to the designated leader 
(“Penanggung Jawab”) for each sub-Part of the Project, and to review and evaluate the 
outputs of each such sub-Part. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty five 
million Dollars ($55,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
– 6 –
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
– 7 –
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
– 8 –
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A (other than Parts A.2 (a), A.4 (a)), B, C.2, 
C.3 and D of the Project through MOF, Parts A.2 (a) and A.4 (a) through BAPPENAS, 
and Part C.1 of the Project through the Office of the Secretary General of the DPR, in 
each case with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, management, financial and budgetary practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed for the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
– 9 –
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of  statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
– 10 –
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 12 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
Section 4.03. 
The Borrower shall make publicly available, and agrees that the 
Bank may also make publicly available, each final audit report referred to in Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, promptly after its issuance by the independent auditors referred to 
therein. 
– 11 –
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Program shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed 
so as to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s ability to achieve the objectives of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
Law no. 17/2003 on State Finances and Law No. 1/2004 on the State 
Treasury of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  the Japan Grant made to 
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the Japan Grant Agreement. 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any of the events specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
– 12 –
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)  
each of the Development Credit Agreement and the Japan Grant 
Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its 
effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
(b) 
the Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been 
adopted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
(c) 
each of the CHU, the PIUs and the TWGs shall have been established, 
and staff appointments have been made, in each case in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2 to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
each of MOF, for the purposes of Parts A (other than Parts A.2 (a) and 
A.4 (a)), B, C.2, C.3 and D of the Project, BAPPENAS, for the purposes of the Parts A.2 
(a) and A,4 (a) of the Project, the Office of the Secretary General of the DPR, for the 
purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, and the Tax Court, for the purposes of Part C.2 of the 
Project, shall, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, have: (i) designated a structural unit responsible for implementation of said 
Part of the Project; (ii) designated specified staff, of adequate experience and 
qualifications, responsible for implementation and oversight of said Part of the Project; 
and (iii) specified the role and responsibilities (in each case acceptable to the Bank) of 
said unit vis-à-vis the PSSU in respect of procurement of goods and services and the 
selection of consultants for the carrying of said Part of the Project; 
(e) 
the Specific Procurement Notice and the Request for Proposals for the 
selection of a consultancy firm for change management and communications services 
under Part D of the Project (the contract for which services is included in the 
Procurement Plan) have been issued in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; 
(f) 
a contract with a consulting firm for independent verification and 
validation services under Part A of the Project (the contract for which services is included 
in the Procurement Plan) has been entered into in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
– 13 –
(g) 
the Specific Procurement Notice and the Request for Proposals for the 
procurement of SPAN, each satisfactory to the Bank, have been issued in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(h) 
an evaluation committee has been appointed, which committee is chaired 
by a senior “Echelon 2” Directorate-General of Treasury official, and includes technical 
specialists from beneficiary agencies and line ministries, in each case with qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Bank, to undertake the evaluation of the SPAN contract 
bids and formulate recommendations thereon. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Treasury 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P.O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
For the Bank: 
 
– 14 –
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Mulia Nasution  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Andrew Steer 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
– 15 –
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan, Credit and Japan Grant 
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent)
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
Amount of 
the Japan 
Grant 
(Expressed 
in Dollars)
% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)
(a)  Goods 
 
other 
 
than for  
 
SPAN 
 
-
2,000,000 
- 
100%  
 
(b)  Goods for  
 
SPAN 
 
under        
 
Part A.3 of 
the Project 
 
-
26,600,000 
- 
100%  
(2)
Consultants’ 
services  
 
(a)  other than 
Part C.1 of  
 
the Project 
 
3,410,000 
15,215,000 
2,950,000
100% 
 
(b)  for Part 
C.1 of the  
 
Project 
 
-
-
1,300,000
100% 
(3)
Training and 
workshops 
 
-
7,200,000 
500,000
100%  
– 16 –
Category
Amount  
of the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
Amount of 
the Japan 
Grant 
(Expressed 
in Dollars)
% of
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(4) 
Incremental 
operating costs 
 
-
300,000 
100,000
100% 
(5) 
Refunding of 
Project 
Preparation 
Advances 
-
784,700 
- 
Amounts due 
pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (c) 
of the Loan 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Front-end Fee 
- 
275,000 
- 
Amount due 
under Section 
2.04 of the 
Loan 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
- 
2,625,300 
150,000 
 
 
TOTAL 
3,410,000 
55,000,000 
5,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the terms “training” and “workshops” mean reasonable expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the holding of training or workshops, as the 
case may be, under the Project including the travel costs and per diem of: (i) trainers and 
trainees, in the case of training; and (ii) the organizers and participants, in the case of 
workshops, and the rental of facilities and the development and/or acquisition of training 
or workshop materials, as the case may be; and 
(b) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of 
incremental expenditures incurred by the PSSU and the PIUs in the implementation of 
– 17 –
the Project (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project), 
including the costs of training Project personnel, advertising, travel and per diem, office 
equipment, communications and utilities, and office consumables, but excluding salaries, 
salary supplements, allowances and honoraria of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods other 
than for SPAN costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of 
individual consultants costing up to $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing up to $100,000 equivalent per contract, (d) 
training and workshops; and (e) incremental operating costs; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Bank Indonesia or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
– 18 –
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in 
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
– 19 –
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
– 20 –
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
– 21 –
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
– 22 –
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve efficiency, governance, integrity and 
transparency in the Borrower’s public financial management and revenue administration.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A.   Public Financial Management 
Upgrading the Borrower’s capacity to plan, execute and account for public 
spending at the national level in accordance with national priorities established in DPR 
approved national budgets by: 
1. 
Strengthening the  policy research capacity of MOF. 
2. 
Strengthening the budget planning, formulation and development system of the 
Borrower, including establishing an integrated  unified budget process and a medium 
term expenditure framework, and initiating a performance-based budgeting process, 
through the provision of technical assistance and training to: (a) BAPPENAS; and (b) the 
Directorate General of Budget and Fiscal Balance of MOF. 
3. 
Modernizing the budget execution and treasury payments system of the 
Borrower, including strengthening the Directorate General of Treasury of MOF, 
automating its overall treasury and budget execution operations, and establishing a 
Treasury Single Account.  
4. 
Carrying out a program for further reforming public procurement, including: 
(a) 
the provision of technical assistance for: (i) the establishment of the 
NPPO; (ii) the accreditation of public procurement professionals; (iii) the development of 
public procurement legislation; (iv) the development of national public procurement 
standards; and (v) supporting and promoting the implementation of civil society oversight 
of public procurement; and  
(b) 
developing an overall strategy for e-procurement and piloting e-
procurement within MOF. 
– 23 –
5. 
Implementing accrual-based government accounting standards. 
Part B.   Public Revenue Administration 
 
1. 
Upgrading the Borrower’s revenue collection capabilities and enhancing the 
integrity and service delivery of  DGCE by: 
(a) 
Strengthening the organization and management of DGCE through: 
upgrading the organizational structure and operational management of DGCE, improving 
human resource management and training, and improving integrity-enhancement 
mechanisms, including the development of a corruption risk “map”. 
(b) 
Strengthening the Borrower’s Customs operations, including reviewing 
the legal framework to determine its consistency with World Trade Organization 
standards and Revised Kyoto Convention principles and standards and drafting revised 
legislation where appropriate to achieve such consistency; strengthening the 
administrative appeals process within DGCE; upgrading DGCE’s risk management and 
customs compliance systems; upgrading DGCE’s valuation capacity and database; and 
improving DGCE’s arrears management and collection capabilities. 
(c) 
Improving mechanisms for trade facilitation, including evaluating and 
upgrading the customs priority channel system; developing a trade facilitation program 
(including simplifying and streamlining import clearance documentation requirements); 
developing mechanisms for promoting business and trading community participation; and 
institutionalizing feedback from stakeholders on customs operations and modernization 
initiatives. 
(d) 
Upgrading the information and communication technology and 
infrastructure of DGCE through the provision of technical assistance. 
2. 
Strengthening the tax administration capabilities of DGT by monitoring the 
implementation of its medium term modernization strategy. 
Part C. Governance and Accountability in Public Financial Management and 
Revenue 
Administration Processes 
1. 
Carrying out a program to strengthen parliamentary capacity for budget analysis 
and oversight through the provision of assistance to the Office of the Secretary General of 
the DPR. 
– 24 –
2. 
Carrying out a program to strengthen the operations and professional capacity 
(including case management, court administration and procedures, and research and 
learning capabilities) of the Tax Court. 
3. 
Carrying out a program to strengthen the Office of the Inspector General of 
MOF,  including the vesting of legal powers and the establishment of a unit to investigate 
allegations of employee misconduct and/or corruption in MOF, the development and 
implementation of revised standards and operating procedures, and the upgrading of in-
house training.  
Part D.   Project Governance and Implementation  
1. 
Providing technical assistance to MOF to develop and support the 
implementation of  a change management and communications strategy for the Project.  
2. 
Providing technical assistance to MOF and other executing agencies: (a) to 
develop and carry out a capacity-building action plan for the monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project and the periodic dissemination of monitoring and evaluation results; and 
(b) to strengthen project coordination and  implementation. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
– 25 –
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Payment of Principal (in US$) 
May 15, 2010 
November 15, 2010 
May 15, 2011 
November 15, 2011 
May 15, 2012 
November 15, 2012 
May 15, 2013 
November 15, 2013 
May 15, 2014 
November 15, 2014 
May 15, 2015 
November 15, 2015 
May 15, 2016 
November 15, 2016 
May 15, 2017 
November 15, 2017 
May 15, 2018 
November 15, 2018 
May 15, 2019 
November 15, 2019 
May 15, 2020 
November 15, 2020 
May 15, 2021 
November 15, 2021 
May 15, 2022 
November 15, 2022 
May 15, 2023 
November 15, 20123 
May 15, 2024 
November 15, 2024 
 
1,560,000 
1,575,000 
1,595,000 
1,610,000 
1,630,000 
1,645,000 
1,665,000 
1,685,000 
1,700,000 
1,720,000 
1,740,000 
1,755,000 
1,775,000 
1,795,000 
1,815,000 
1,835,000 
1,855,000 
1,875,000 
1,895,000 
1,915,000 
1,935,000 
1,960,000 
1,980,000 
2,000,000 
2,025,000 
2,045,000 
2,070,000 
2,090,000 
2,115,000 
2,140,000 
 
– 26 –
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
(A) 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement 
Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule and of Annex A to this Schedule.   
(B) 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions 
of this Schedule and of Annex A to this Schedule.   
(C) 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
(A) 
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of Section II and 
paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.  
2. 
The bidding procedure for SPAN under Part A of the Project shall be carried out 
in two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and the Bank’s standard document for Two-Stage Bidding for Supply and 
Installation of Information Systems. 
– 27 –
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule. 
2. 
Shopping
Goods and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Direct Contracting
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting  
may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
– 28 –
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Individual Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis. 
Section IV:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A. 
Prior Review
1. 
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods and services (other than consultants’ services) to be awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding, National Competitive Bidding or Direct Contracting; 
(b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm to be awarded by Single Source Selection; and (d) the first contract for consultancy 
services under each sub-Part of the Project, regardless of its estimated cost. 
2. 
 The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more: (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval 
– 29 –
shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
3. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Section IV 
A, the terms of reference of each contract for the employment of consultants, regardless 
of the estimated cost thereof, shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. 
B. 
Post Review.
Each contract for goods, services or consultants’ services not governed by Part A 
of this Section shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
– 30 –
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 4 
Without limitation on the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement  
(Schedule 4) and of the Procurement Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines (as such 
terms are defined in said schedule and referred to hereafter as the Guidelines), the 
following  provisions shall apply in respect of goods and consultants’ services to be 
procured under the Project: 
1. 
To ensure end-user participation in the procurement of goods, services and 
consultants’ services under this Project, the requester/user of such goods, services or 
consultants’ services (as the case may be) to be acquired shall be represented on relevant 
procurement/selection committee.  The criteria for the selection of procurement/selection 
committee members shall in all cases be consistent with the provisions of the Guidelines.  
2. 
The Procurement Plans, including all updates thereof, shall be made publicly 
available promptly after their finalization. 
3. 
All bidding documents and requests for proposals issued in accordance with 
Schedule 4 shall be made available to any member of the public promptly upon request, 
subject only to payment of a reasonable fee to cover the cost of printing and delivery.  In 
the case of requests for proposals, the relevant documents will only be made available 
after notification of award to the successful firm.  Each such document will continue to 
be made publicly available until a year after completion of the contract entered into for 
the goods or consultants’ services in question. 
4. 
All short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-qualification, lists of pre-
qualified contractors and suppliers shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request. 
5. 
A summary of the evaluation of all bids and proposals for specific contracts shall 
be disclosed to all bidders and parties submitting proposals therefor, promptly after the 
notification of award to the successful bidder/consultant.  Information in such summaries 
will be limited to a list of bidders/consultants, all bid prices and financial proposals as 
read out at public openings for bids and financial proposals, all bids and proposals 
declared non responsive (together with reasons for such an assessment), the name of 
winning bidder/consultant and the contract price.  Such summaries will be made available 
to any member of the public promptly upon request. 
6. 
Contract award information for all contracts for goods above $100,000 
equivalent or more and all contracts for consultants above $50,000 equivalent or more 
shall be made publicly available and published widely, and be made available to any 
member of the public upon request, promptly after such award. 
– 31 –
7. 
A list of all contracts awarded in the three months preceding the date of such 
request, including, with respect to each such contract, the name of the 
contractor/consultant selected, the contract amount, the number of bidders/makers of 
proposals in respect thereof, the procurement method followed and the purpose of such 
contract shall be made available, promptly upon request by any member of the public. 
8. 
Representatives of the end-users of goods being procured shall be permitted to 
attend public bid openings in respect thereof. 
– 32 –
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 4 
1. 
General
Subject to the provisions of paragraph B (1) of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, the procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding shall be those 
set forth in Presidential Decree No.80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the 
clarifications and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for 
compliance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the “Procurement Guidelines”). 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a 
condition for participation in the bidding process.  
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders: (i) 
shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not 
be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
3. 
Pre-qualification
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods.  Normally, post-
qualification shall be used.  When pre-qualification shall be required: 
(a) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-
qualification; and  
(b) 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
4. 
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to 
form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of the supply of goods as a condition of award 
of the contract. 
– 33 –
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and 
local regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement procedures 
under the Loan Agreement. 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the deadline for the submission of bids. 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit 
responsible for procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated 
value of the contract. 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a registration 
process is required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity for registering. 
7. 
Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a bank guarantee from 
a reputable bank. 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and if bids are invited in two envelopes, both envelopes (technical 
and price) shall be opened at the same time. 
– 34 –
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidder. 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the 
owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
No bids shall be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three, re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
– 35 –
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain, throughout the period of Project 
implementation,  the PSC and the PWC; and (b) establish, and maintain throughout the 
period of Project implementation, the TWGs, each with a composition, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, which responsibilities shall consist of: 
(i)  
in the case of the PSC, overall Project implementation and coordination 
through supervision and policy guidance, ensuring that: (i) Project 
activities are appropriately coordinated: (a) among all relevant 
departments in MOF; (b) between all relevant public institutions of the 
Borrower, including BAPPENAS and the Office of the Secretary-
General of the DPR; and (c) between MOF and Bank Indonesia; and (ii) 
donor assistance for the Program is appropriately coordinated for the 
purpose of ensuring efficient use of resources and contributing to the 
attainment of the Program’s objectives; 
 (ii)  
in the case of the PWC, coordinating and overseeing preparation and 
implementation (referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule 5) of each 
sub-Part 
of 
the 
Project, 
monitoring 
and 
evaluating 
Project 
implementation, 
periodically 
reporting 
progress 
in 
Project 
implementation to the PSC, and monitoring the implementation of the 
Governance and Accountability Action Plan; and 
(iii)  
in the case of the TWGs, providing technical support and guidance to the 
designated leader (“Penanggung Jawab”) for each sub-Part of the Project, 
and to review and evaluate the outputs of each such sub-Part. 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain until completion of the Project, the PSSU: (b) 
establish, and maintain until completion of the Project, a PIU in each Project 
implementing directorate or agency (other than the Office of the Secretary-General of the 
DPR), until completion of the Project; and (c) establish, and maintain until completion of 
the Project, the CHU, in each case with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Bank, and  provide said PSSU, each PIU and said CHU at all times with adequate funds 
and other resources and with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers as 
shall be necessary for each to accomplish its functions, responsibilities and objectives.  
– 36 –
3. 
Each of: (a) MOF, for the implementation of Parts A (other than Parts A.2 (a) 
and A.4 (a)), Part B and Part D of the Project; (b) BAPPENAS, for the implementation of 
Parts A.2 (a) and 4 (a) of the Project; (c) the Office of the Secretary-General of the DPR,  
for the implementation of Part C.1 of the Project; and (d) the Tax Court, for the 
implementation of Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through an appropriate 
legal instrument (the provisions of which shall be consistent with the Project 
Management Manual): (i) designate a structural unit responsible for implementation of 
said Part/s of the Project, (ii) designate a leader (“Penanggung Jawab”) of, and staff for, 
said unit, in each case with terms of reference, experience and qualifications  acceptable 
to the Bank; and (iii) specify the role and responsibility of said unit vis-à-vis the PSSU in 
respect of procurement of goods and services and the selection of consultants for the 
carrying of said Part/s of the Project.  
4. 
The Borrower shall, through MOF, adopt and thereafter apply a Project 
Management Manual acceptable to the Bank to serve as a reference manual to Project 
staff.  Said manual shall set out, inter alia: the organizational structure and 
responsibilities for project governance and accountability (including responsibilities for 
carrying out the Governance and Accountability Action Plan); coordination 
arrangements; staffing and training requirements; fund flow arrangements; the financial 
management, reporting and auditing requirements set forth in Article IV to this 
Agreement and the arrangements for complying with said requirements; and the 
procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the arrangements 
for complying with said procedures.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or waive the Project Management Manual 
or any part thereof. 
Project Implementation
5. 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
by no later than January 31 and July 31 in each year, commencing 
July 31, 2005, and until completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank for its review and comments, a semi-annual work program; and  
(ii) 
not later than February 28 and August 31 in each year, commencing 
February 28, 2005, finalize the above-mentioned work program for 
implementation, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon, and 
thereafter implement such program in a satisfactory manner.  
– 37 –
6. 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
not later than July 31 in each year, commencing July 31, 2006, and until 
completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comments, an annual plan (including budget provisions) for the 
maintenance of the hardware and software systems (including SPAN) 
acquired under the Project under contracts costing $100,000 or more, and 
the connectivity of said systems, said annual plan to include the 
estimated costs therefore, including non-personnel, maintenance and 
other operating costs; and  
(ii) 
not later than August 31 in each year, commencing August 31, 2006, 
finalize the above-mentioned plan for implementation, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon, and thereafter implement such 
plan in a satisfactory manner.  
7. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall, through MOF: 
(i) 
not later than March 31, 2005, furnish to the Bank for its review an 
Information Technology Infrastructure Support Services Plan for MOF, 
which plan is to: (a) include an implementation schedule; (b) cover 
organization, staffing and operational modalities; and (c) take into 
consideration the recommendations from the reports submitted by the 
consultants engaged by MOF and funded by the Project Preparation 
Advances to prepare user and technical requirements for  SPAN; 
(ii) 
not later than July 31, 2005, adopt the said Plan, taking into account the 
Bank's comments thereon, and thereafter implement such plan in a 
satisfactory  manner; 
(iii) 
not later than September 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank may 
agree, appoint and thereafter maintain a full-time team, appropriately 
staffed and with qualifications and experience to be an effective MOF 
counterpart for the SPAN implementation contractor; such team to 
include functional experts in budget execution, budget classification, 
revenue remittances, government accounting, payment and revenue 
processing, statistical and financial analysis, and IT infrastructure; 
(iv) 
not later than January 31, 2006, enter into a contract for the procurement 
of SPAN in accordance with the provisions of Section II (A) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; and 
– 38 –
(v) 
ensure that, not later than December 31, 2007, the stage one roll-out of 
SPAN (as described in the Invitation to Bid for SPAN) is completed. 
8. 
By no later than December 31, 2006, the Borrower, through MOF, shall take all 
such measures as are necessary to have the Treasury Single Account established and 
functioning, with all on-budget central government bank accounts and own-revenue bank 
accounts of line ministries  included therein. 
9. 
In carrying Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower, through DGCE, shall: 
(i) 
not later than March 31, 2006, complete a Customs information systems 
study (which study is to be carried out by consultants engaged in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and with 
the Procurement Plan) and provide said study to the Bank for its review; 
and 
(ii) 
not later than June 30, 2006, adopt a time-bound action plan to acquire 
and install a Customs  information system, which action plan shall take 
account of the recommendations of the study referred to in sub-paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph 9 and the comments of the Bank thereon. 
10. 
In carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower, through MOF, shall: (a) 
establish by no later than December 31, 2006, a unit within the Office of the Inspector-
General to investigate allegations of employee misconduct and/or corruption in MOF, 
with functions and responsibilities as agreed with the Bank; and (b) provide said unit at 
all times with adequate funds and other resources and with qualified and experienced 
personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its functions, 
responsibilities and objectives. 
11. 
The Borrower shall, through MOF, implement the Governance and 
Accountability Action Plan. 
Monitoring and Reporting
12. 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
– 39 –
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, by February 28 and August 31 of each year, commencing 
August 31, 2005, and until completion of the Project, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph 12, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the six (6) months following such date, which measures shall 
include in each report due by August 31  in any year, the proposed 
update of the Procurement Plan pursuant to the provisions of Section 
3.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(iii) 
review with the Bank, on or about March 31and September 30 of each 
year, commencing September 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph 
12, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter; 
(iv) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about August 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-
paragraph (i) of this paragraph 12, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date;  
(v) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (iv) of this 
paragraph 12, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
(vi) 
make publicly available the report referred to in sub-paragraph (iv) of 
this paragraph 12, at the same time as it is furnished to the Bank pursuant 
to said sub-paragraph. 
 
– 40 –
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
Part A of the Project:
Part A.2: 
First medium term expenditure framework endorsed by the 
Government of Indonesia and forward estimates presented to DPR. 
Part A.3: 
SPAN Stage I (as such is described in the invitation for bids for 
the contract for the procurement thereof) evaluated with user input with respect to 
content, timeliness and verifiability; specified periodic financial reports prepared for 
concerned entities. 
Treasury Single Account system functioning with acceptable parameters: all on-
budget central government bank accounts and own-revenue bank accounts of line 
ministries are brought into the Treasury Single Account system. 
Central Government financial statements meet Government Accounting 
Standards as promulgated by MOF and the consolidated management reports produced 
by the DG Treasury include financial assets and liabilities, and cash-based reports of 
extra-budgetary funds. 
Part A.4: 
An evaluation of  MOF e-procurement pilot is completed and an 
action plan is adopted by MOF for wider rollout; a survey of procurement prices relative 
to international benchmarks is completed.   
Part B of the Project:
Part B.1: 
DGCE has: (a) adopted a comprehensive and consultatively 
prepared modernization action plan with inputs from stakeholders; (b) institutionalized an 
annual survey of stakeholders, and annually publishes a summary of the results; and (c) 
implemented Web-based filing for approximately 75% of trade transactions. 
Part B.2: 
DGT has adopted a Results-oriented Modernization Strategy and 
Plan with measurable performance indicators, aimed at the eventual redesign of processes 
along single taxpayer account lines and based on the results of the pilot re-engineering of 
one representative district office. 
 
  
– 41 –
Part C of the Project:
Part C.1: 
Survey verifies strengthened capacity of the Budget Committee 
of the DPR.  
Part C.2: 
Annual surveys of stakeholder satisfaction with tax court 
administration and case management have been established; an action plan has been 
adopted to address systems weaknesses; Tax Court decisions are accessible to the public 
through the Tax Court website. 
Part D of the Project:
Periodic reviews verify that: (a) Project governance and all Project activities are 
consistent with the Governance and Accountability Action Plan and Project procurement 
is consistent with the Procurement Plan; (b) the PSC is strengthening project governance 
and oversight; and (c) an investigation unit is established and fully operational in the 
Office of the Inspector General of MOF, including the establishment of the necessary 
legal powers to  investigate fully allegations of misconduct and/or corruption against 
MOF staff. 
 
