CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER  7231-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Integrated Mass Transit Systems Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
Dated  September 21, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7231-CO        
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 2004 between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Borrower); 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) to the Borrower 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:  
(a)  Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is 
subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use 
of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time 
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage 
for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required  to be consistent  with such policy of the Bank;” and  
- 2 -
(b) the text in Section 5.01 which reads “(a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)” is deleted in 
its entirety. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of an involuntary 
taking of land under the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural 
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset  acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or 
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely 
affected, temporarily or permanently; and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected 
Persons;       
(b) 
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) and/or (c) of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Bogotá Transmilenio S.A.” means the entity responsible for planning 
and managing the mass transit system of the city of Bogotá, or any successor thereto; 
(d) 
“BRTS” means bus rapid transit systems in Participating Cities (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(e) 
“DNP” means Departamento Nacional de Planeación, the Borrower’s 
Planning Department, or any successor thereto; 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plans” and the acronym “EMPs” mean the 
plans of action, satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower, with the 
approval of the Bank, for the carrying out of Parts B.1 and/or B.2 of the Project, 
according to a framework prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank, prior to 
the date of this Agreement, which set out the objectives, policies, monitoring procedures, 
time schedules and other environmental and cultural property protection provisions to: A) 
mitigate potential adverse environmental effects; B) mitigate potential adverse effects to 
natural habitats; and C) mitigate adverse effects to cultural properties encountered in the 
carrying out of Parts B.1, and/or B.2 of the Project, as such plan may be revised from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
- 3 -
(g) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith 
from the Borrower to the Bank setting forth: (i) the Project monitoring indicators; 
and (b) the conditions for the transfer of implementation responsibilities from the 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación (as hereinafter defined) to the Ministerio 
de Transporte (as hereinafter defined); 
 (i) 
“MHCP” means Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto; 
 
(j) 
“MOT” means Ministerio de Transporte, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Transport, or any successor thereto;  
(k) 
“NQS Line of the Bogotá Transmilenio S.A.” means the Norte Quito Sur 
transportation corridor managed by Bogotá Transmilenio S.A.; 
(l) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Participating City” and “Participating Cities” mean the Borrower’s 
cities selected according to the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for 
the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project;  
(n)  
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;  
(o) 
“Policy Framework for Compensation and Resettlement of Project 
Affected Persons” and the acronym “PFCR” mean the policy framework for 
compensation and resettlement of Affected Persons, satisfactory to the Bank, in 
connection with the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project, dated February 23, 2004, 
prepared by DNP and adopted through DNP’s official instruction dated April 28, 2004, as 
said policy framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank;  
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
29, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
- 4 -
(q) 
“Remedial Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean the 
remedial resettlement action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, in connection with the 
carrying out of Part B.2 of the Project, adopted by the Borrower, through DNP, and that 
will be submitted by the Borrower, for approval by the Bank, before any disbursement of 
Loan proceeds allocated to Part B.2 of the Project can take place, which sets out the 
principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation of 
Affected Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. The RAP will also take into consideration the assessment of the 
reestablishment of socioeconomic conditions of population already displaced and to be 
displaced as a result of the carrying out of Part B.2 of the Project; 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Subsidiary Agreements” mean the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through DNP, with MHCP, the Participating Cities, and the city 
of Bogotá pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time; and 
(t) 
“Transfers” means the amount transferred by the Borrower, through 
MHCP, to a Participating City and/or to the city of Bogotá, to cover Borrower’s 
contributions to finance goods, works, and services for: (i) the construction of segregated 
busways; (ii) the construction of terminals and transfer centers; (iii) the construction of 
mixed-traffic lanes adjacent to busway corridors (when their geometrical specification is 
affected); (iv) the construction of sidewalks; (v) the construction of pedestrian ways 
along busway corridors; and (vi) supervision of works, required for the implementation 
of Parts B.1 and/or B.2 of the Project.  
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
- 5 -
cost of goods, consultants’ services, training and Transfers required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, upon previous approval by the Bank, for the 
purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account 
(the Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.   
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. The Borrower shall pay such fee no 
later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and  December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
- 6 -
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through DNP, with the assistance of the Participating Cities, and the city of 
Bogotá, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, managerial, social, technical, and 
urban practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower, through DNP, shall enter into agreements with MHCP, 
MOT, the Participating Cities, and the city of Bogotá (the Subsidiary Agreements) 
satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for:  
(i) 
the transfer to Participating Cities of the portion of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to Parts A.2, A.3, B.1, B.3, and B.5 of the 
Project;  
(ii) 
the transfer to the city of Bogotá of the portion of the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated to Parts B.2, and B.5 of the Project; 
- 7 -
(iii) 
the obligation of Participating Cities to:  
(A) 
carry out Parts A.2, A.3, B.1, B.3, B.4 and B.5 
of the Project, and to comply with all the other 
applicable 
provisions 
of 
this 
Agreement, 
including, inter alia, those set forth in Sections 
3.02, 3.03, 3.04, and 3.07;  
(B) 
enable the Bank to review the Participating 
Cities’ accounts and other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request in respect to the 
implementation of Parts A.2, A.3, B.1, B.3, B.4 
and B.5 of the Project;  
(C) 
provide the Borrower promptly with whatever 
information, regarding Parts A.2, A.3, B.1, B.3, 
and B.5 of the Project, the Borrower needs to 
comply with the obligations referred to in 
Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(D) 
procure the goods, services and works for the 
Project in accordance with the requirements of 
this Agreement; 
(E) 
keep records and accounts for expenditures 
under Parts A.2, A.3, B.1, B.3, and B.5 of the 
Project and Transfers under Part B.1 of the 
Project;  
(F) 
utilize the proceeds of the Transfers and provide 
information to DNP and MHCP on the use 
thereof in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(G) 
provide or cause to be provided, in a timely 
manner as needed, its share of the funds, goods 
and/or services required to implement Parts A.2, 
A.3, B.1, B.3, B.4; and B.5 of the Project; 
(iv) 
the obligation of the city of Bogotá to: 
- 8 -
(A) 
carry out Parts B.2, B.4 and B.5 of the Project, 
and to comply with all the other applicable 
provisions of this Agreement, including, inter 
alia, those set forth in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 
and 3.07; 
(B) 
enable the Bank to review the city of Bogotá’s 
accounts and other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably 
request 
in 
respect 
to 
the 
implementation of Parts B.2, B.4 and B.5 of the 
Project; 
(C) 
provide the Borrower promptly with whatever 
information, regarding Parts B.2, B.4 and B.5 of 
the Project, the Borrower needs to comply with 
the obligations referred to in Sections 4.01 and 
4.02 of this Agreement;  
(D) 
procure the goods, services and works for the 
Project in accordance with the requirements of 
this Agreement; 
(E) 
keep records and accounts for Transfers under 
Part B.2 of the Project;  
(F) 
utilize the proceeds of the Transfers and provide 
information to DNP and MHCP on the use 
thereof in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(G) 
provide or cause to be provided, in a timely 
manner as needed, its share of the funds, goods 
and/or services required for implementing Parts 
B.2, B.4 and B.5 of the Project;  
(v) 
the obligation of MHCP, to disburse to each Participating City, 
and to the city of Bogotá the Transfers for the implementation of 
Parts B.1 and/or B.2 of the Project, in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the corresponding Subsidiary 
Agreements, and the Operational Manual; 
 
- 9 -
(vi) 
the obligation of MOT, to: (1) provide technical and 
administrative assistance to Participating Cities with respect to 
the design and implementation of BRTS; and (2) register and 
include in its data base the investment projects related to the 
implementation of BRTS;  
(vii) 
the requirements for auditing the expenditures under Parts B.1, 
and B.2 of the Project;  
(viii) 
MHCP’s right to suspend disbursements of Loan proceeds for 
Transfers, or cancel amounts to be disbursed for Transfers, as the 
case may be, in the event of non compliance by the Participating 
Cities and/or the city of Bogotá with the obligations set forth in 
the corresponding Subsidiary Agreements, in this Agreement and 
those of the Operational Manual;  
(ix) 
the schedule of disbursements by MHCP to the Participating 
Cities and the city of Bogotá of the Transfers for the 
implementation of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project; and  
(x) 
the technical, financial, procurement, environmental and 
resettlement requirements for the implementation of Parts B.1 
and B.2 of the Project. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, 
waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreements or any part thereof.   
 
(d)  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Subsidiary Agreements 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, including those to be financed by the Borrower with Transfers 
under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.   
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval.  
 
- 10 -
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through DNP, shall carry out the Project in accordance with a 
manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter 
alia: 
(xi) 
detailed arrangements for the overall carrying out of the Project;  
(xii) 
an institutional implementation plan of DNP, the Participating 
Cities, and the city of Bogotá for the management of the Project 
(including, inter alia, allocation of responsibilities among staff, 
yearly planning of activities and budget and time allocation for 
those activities); 
(xiii) 
the procurement guidelines to be followed by the Borrower, the 
Participating Cities and/or the city of Bogotá and the financial 
management guidelines to be followed during Project 
implementation by the Borrower, the Participating Cities and/or 
the city of Bogotá; 
 
(iv) 
the guidelines for the preparation of the Annual Action Plans;  
(v) 
the procedures and criteria for:  
(A) 
training and technical assistance, environmental 
assessments 
and 
corresponding 
mitigation 
measures; and 
(B) 
the selection for Participating Cities; 
(vi) 
the guidelines for the implementation of the RAP, the PFCR and 
the EMPs in connection with the carrying out of the Project;  
(vii) 
a construction manual to guide works under Parts B.1 and B.2 of 
the Project (which manual shall include, inter alia, the EMPs, 
provisions for erosion control, natural habitats’ protection, solid 
waste management, protection of cultural property, occupational 
health guidelines, first aid instructions and restriction on the use 
of child labor);  
(viii) 
the model forms for Subsidiary Agreements; and 
- 11 -
(ix) 
the procedures for the utilization of the proceeds of the Transfers 
for the implementation of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project. 
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through DNP, shall: 
(a) 
not later than December 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting in year 2004, furnish to the Bank for approval an annual action plan (the Annual 
Action Plan), each said plan to include, inter alia:
(i) 
the Project activities to be carried out by DNP, the 
Participating Cities and the city of Bogotá during the twelve 
months immediately following the presentation of each said 
plan; and  
(ii) 
the procurement plan, disbursement schedule and chart of 
accounts for each said twelve month period; (b) thereafter 
implement each said Annual Action Plan, approved by the Bank, 
in accordance with its terms; and (c) carry out the Annual Action 
Plan for the year 2005 approved by the Bank prior to the date of 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through DNP, shall operate and maintain in 
DNP, at all times during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit (the PCU) 
with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter 
alia, the responsibility of the PCU to assist the Borrower in the coordination, monitoring 
and supervision of the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through DNP, shall ensure that the PCU is, during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and staffed with a core team of: (i) an 
environmental specialist; (ii) a resettlement specialist; and (iii) a procurement specialist; 
and other professional and administrative staff, all hired with terms of reference, through 
competitive processes, in numbers and with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Bank. 
- 12 -
(c) 
The Borrower and the Bank shall agree the proposed changes in the 
number of positions of the PCU and/or in the professional skills required for occupying 
such positions.  
 
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through DNP, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter and the data produced by the monitoring and evaluation program 
referred to in Part A.4 (d) of the Project, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, each December 15 during Project implementation, starting with the report due 
not later than December 15, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding the 
date of presentation of the report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the following calendar semester;  
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 15 of each year of Project 
implementation, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, starting in year 2005, the 
pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports 
and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
 
(d) 
carry out an in-depth review (the Mid-Term Review) jointly with the 
Bank, by July 26, 2006 or such later date as the Bank shall agree, on the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through DNP, shall: 
 
(a)  
agree and coordinate with the Participating Cities and with the city of 
Bogotá all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by 
persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets, or of income or means 
of livelihood, temporarily or permanently as a result of Part B.1 and/or B.2 of the Project;  
- 13 -
(b)  
prior to initiating the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall provide evidence to the Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, demonstrating that, inter alia: 
(i) 
the relevant Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into with the 
corresponding Participating City; 
(ii) 
the resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons has taken 
place in accordance with the relevant resettlement plan, 
previously approved by the Bank, in accordance with the 
principles, provisions, and institutional procedures of the PFCR, 
the Operational Manual and this Agreement, including, inter 
alia, the acquisition of all necessary land, structures and other 
assets required for Part B.1 of the Project, and the provision of 
the relevant compensation therefore and resettlement and 
rehabilitation assistance; and 
(iii) 
the corresponding Participating City has complied with the 
environmental 
mitigation, 
monitoring, 
cultural 
property 
protection, institutional strengthening and other environmental 
measures set forth in the corresponding EMP;  
 
(c) 
with regard to Part B.2 of the Project, cause the city of Bogotá to carry 
out the RAP, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, designed to improve or at least 
maintain the living standards, income earning capacity and production levels of all 
Affected Persons;  
 
(d) 
cause the Participating Cities and the city of Bogotá to implement their 
respective Parts of the Project in compliance with the environmental mitigation, 
monitoring, cultural property protection, institutional strengthening and other 
environmental measures set forth in the EMPs and shall not take any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such compliance; and  
 
(e) 
furnish to the Bank any revisions proposed to be introduced into the 
RAP, PFCR and/or EMPs in order to achieve their objectives and, thereafter, introduce 
such revisions into such plans as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through DNP, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
- 14 -
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and  
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.09. Without prejudice to the Bank’s rights contained in paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, if the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Loan proceeds: (a) was made for expenditures and/or Transfers or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; or (b) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank (including for example, the documents 
and other evidence referred to in paragraphs 3 (c) and 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement), the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (ii) refund to the Bank an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified, as the 
case may be. 
 
Section 3.10. (a) Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, upon compliance, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and to the Borrower, 
with the conditions set forth in annex 2 to the Implementation Letter, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project, through MOT, with the assistance of the Participating Cities, and 
the city of Bogotá, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, managerial, social, technical, and 
urban  practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Upon compliance of the conditions referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, any reference to Departamento Nacional de Planeación and/or the acronym 
DNP in this Agreement, shall be construed as a reference to Ministerio de Transporte 
and/or the acronym MOT, without the need of an amendment to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through DNP, shall maintain within the PCU a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through DNP, shall: 
- 15 -
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each of the Borrower’s fiscal years audited (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank), in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank): 
(A) 
certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) as so audited; and 
(B) 
an opinion on such statements, by said auditors 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure (including statements of 
transfer as cited in paragraph 4 (e) of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement), the Borrower, 
through DNP, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures (including 
statements of transfer as cited in paragraph 4 (e) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement) are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether: (I) the 
- 16 -
statements of expenditure and/or statements of transfers; and (II) 
the documents and other evidence referred to in paragraphs 3 (c) 
and 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.   
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through DNP, shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.  
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished by the Borrower, through DNP, to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01 (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any Participating City, or the city of 
Bogotá shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its corresponding 
Subsidiary Agreement, and that DNP and/or MHCP shall have failed to exercise its 
remedies under said Subsidiary Agreement; and 
- 17 -
(b) 
without prejudice to the Bank’s rights contained in Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions, it is understood that, if any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of 
this Section shall have occurred, the Bank may choose, by notice to the Borrower, to 
suspend in whole or in part only the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account for expenditures under Parts B.1 and/or B.2 of the Project. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower, through DNP, 
and approved by the Bank; 
(b) 
the terms of reference for the hiring of the independent auditors referred 
to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have been prepared by the Borrower, through 
DNP, and have been approved by the Bank;   
(c) 
the PCU has been fully staffed and is operational as provided in Section 
3.05 of this Agreement; and  
 
(d) 
the financial management system for the Project has been established as 
provided in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement;  
Section 6.02. The date December 21, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
- 18 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
Plaza San Agustín  
Carrera 7-A, Número 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C.  
Colombia 
 
  
 
 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
  
 
MINHACIENDA 43289 MHAC  
(571) 350-9344 
 
- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Alberto Chueca Mora 
Acting Regional Vice President 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By/s/ Alberto Carrasquilla Barrera 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
 
Witness: 
 
By/s/ Andres Uriel Gallego Henao 
Minister of Transport 
 
Witness: 
 
By/s/ Santiago Montenegro Trujillo 
Director 
Planning Department 
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods for Part A.2 
250,000 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
1,750,000 
100% 
 
for Part A of the 
 
Project and for 
 
Project audits 
 
(3) 
Training for Part A.2 
300,000 
 
100% 
(a) of the Project 
 
(4) 
Transfers for Part B.1 
114,500,000 
100% of amounts 
 
of the Project 
 
transferred by the 
 
Borrower, through 
 
MHCP, to  
 
Participating Cities 
 
under the  
 
corresponding 
 
Subsidiary 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) 
Transfers for Part B.2 
120,000,000 
100% of amounts 
 
of the Project 
 
transferred by the 
 
Borrower, through 
 
MHCP, to the 
 
City of Bogotá 
under the 
 
corresponding 
 
Subsidiary 
 
Agreement 
- 21 -
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(6) 
Unallocated 
13,200,000
TOTAL 
250,000,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Training” means reasonable 
expenditures, based on a budget previously approved by the Bank (other than those for 
consultants’ services), incurred to finance transportation costs and per-diem of trainers 
and trainees, rental of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and 
material under the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $25,000,000, may 
be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made within twelve months prior to 
the date of this Agreement, but not earlier than March 26, 2004; 
 
(b)  
payments for expenditures in respect of Category (4) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the obligations set forth in Sections 3.07 (b) and 
3.07 (d) of this Agreement have been complied with by the Borrower, in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the Participating City for which such payments 
are made;   
 
(c)  
payments for expenditures in respect of Category (4) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule in the event the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank by a date six (6) months after the end of each Borrower’s fiscal year, together with 
the audits referred to in Section 4.01 (c) (iii) of this Agreement, such documents and other 
evidence showing, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that one hundred (100%) of the amounts 
disbursed by the Borrower and covered by Category (4)  set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of this Schedule were used for goods, works, and services eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan as confirmed by such audit report;   
 
(d) 
payments for expenditures in respect of Category (5) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the obligations set forth in Sections 3.07 (c) and 
- 22 -
3.07 (d) of this Agreement have been complied with by the Borrower in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank with respect to the city of Bogotá;  
 
(e)  
payments for expenditures in respect of Category (5) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule in the event the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank by a date six (6) months after the end of each Borrower’s fiscal year, together with 
the audits referred to in Section 4.01 (c) (iii) of this Agreement, such documents and other 
evidence showing, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that one hundred (100%) of the amounts 
disbursed by the Borrower and covered by Category (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule were used for works eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan 
as confirmed by such audit report; and 
 
(f) 
payments for expenditures in respect of any Category set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the 
Bank in full the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods; (b)  
under contracts for the employment of consulting firms; (c) under contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants; (d) for Training; and (e) for Transfers (in which 
case the statements of expenditure shall be referred to as statements of transfer) that are 
not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of the Procurement 
Plan.  
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop high quality and sustainable 
BRTS in Participating Cities to improve mobility along strategic mass transit corridors; 
(b) to improve accessibility to public transportation for the poor; and (c) to build greater 
institutional capacity in the Borrower’s public transportation institutions in order to 
formulate integrated urban transport policies and to improve urban transport planning and 
traffic management.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:  
Part A: Implementing Capacity Building
1. 
Provision of support for the Borrower’s efforts to formulate national urban 
transport programs and strategies, through, inter alia: (a) the definition of a national 
urban transport institutional map; (b) the formulation of a transport sector policy; (c) the 
definition of operational, regulatory, institutional, environmental, social and road safety 
strategies within the urban transport and urban development context; and (d) the 
identification of appropriate mass transit solutions to improve transport in the Borrower’s 
territory and to improve traffic management.  
 
2. 
Improvement of the institutional capacity of transportation entities of 
Participating Cities to ensure adequate implementation of BRTS, through, inter alia: (a) 
the provision of equipment and training; (b) the setup of an operational structure able to 
program, monitor and administer public transportation services; and (c) the 
implementation of twinning arrangements between BRTS and Bogotá Transmilenio S.A.  
3. 
Strengthening of the operational capacity of Participating Cities with respect to 
the implementation of urban development and transport strategies.  
 
4. 
Provision of support for overall Project coordination, evaluation, supervision and 
implementation, including, inter alia:
(a) 
the strengthening of the capacity of the PCU to comply with its 
responsibilities referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;  
(b) 
the carrying out of audits under Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 
- 24 -
(c) 
the carrying out of Project studies, including, inter alia, performance 
reviews and impact evaluations; and  
(d) 
the design and implementation of a program to monitor and evaluate the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
Part B: BRTS Development
1. 
Construction of about 57 kilometers of segregated transportation corridors in 
Participating Cities, including, inter alia: (a) construction of segregated busways; (b) 
repaving of mixed-traffic lanes adjacent to new busways; (c) construction and installation 
of bus stations and terminals; and (d) paving of feeder roads.  
2. 
Construction of about 20 kilometers of segregated corridors in the NQS Line of 
the Bogotá Transmilenio, S.A., including, inter alia: (a) construction of segregated 
busways; and (b) repaving of mixed-traffic lanes adjacent to new busways.  
3. 
Definition of a new regulatory framework for the implementation of BRTS in 
Participating Cities.  
4. 
Resettlement of Affected Persons in connection with the carrying out of Parts B.1 
and B.2 of the Project. 
5. 
Design and implementation of EMPs for the carrying out of Parts B.1 and/or B.2 
of the Project.  
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
 
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 15 and December 15  
 
Beginning on June 15, 2012 through December 15, 2013 
 8% 
 
On June 15, 2014 through December 15, 2015 
 9% 
 
On June 15, 2016 through December 15, 2017 
 8% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
- 26 -
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each amount.  
- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines, and the 
following additional procedures: 
1. 
Domestic Preference. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of 
Colombia 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
- 28 -
(c) 
Works estimated to cost more than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract 
for the 5 lots already procured for the NQS Line of the Bogotá Transmilenio S.A. (as per 
the waiver of the $5,000,000 maximum threshold applicable to national competitive 
bidding in the Borrower’s territory granted by the Bank to the Borrower on January 28, 
2004), may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
(d) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank for approval, appropriate model 
bidding documents. Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be 
used, said model bidding documents, as approved for bidding under the Project. Any 
change or departure from the model approved shall require Bank’s prior approval.  
(e) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to 
appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded 
the corresponding contract. 
 
(f) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents. 
(g) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or 
factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
(h) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.47 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
- 29 -
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder’s written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Goods and works which meet the requirements for direct 
contracting referred to in paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality -and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of quality in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of a fixed budget in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for very standard and routine technical 
assignments which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of lowest 
- 30 -
cost in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3 ), (4), and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services, and Transfers required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $25,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $15,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $35,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 32 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 33 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank (including, for example, the documents and other evidence referred to in paragraphs 
3 (c) and 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement), the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
