CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4751-CHA 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Hunan Urban Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 18, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4751-CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 2004, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Hunan (as defined in Section 1.02) with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to 
Hunan, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Hunan (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
- 2 -
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Changsha” means Changsha Municipality within Hunan Province, and 
any successor thereto. 
(c) 
“Changsha Section RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the 
Corridor Component, Changsha Section, dated March 2004 and prepared by Hunan 
Water and Hydropower Reconnaissance and Design Institute, which set out the principles 
and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and the resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project in Changsha, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
(d) 
“Changsha Wastewater Treatment RAP” means  the Resettlement Action 
Plan of Chanshanyuan of Changsha City dated December 2003 and adopted by 
Changsha, which sets out the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land 
and other assets, the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons 
on account of the execution of Part B of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(e) 
“CMDC” means Changsha Municipal Drainage Company Limited a 
state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of 
July 2000 and to Business License No. 4301001003232 dated November 27, 2000, issued 
by Changsha Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor 
thereto. 
(f) 
 “CUDIC” means Changsha Urban Development Investment Company 
Limited, a state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter of August 18, 1988, and to Business License No. 4301001003070 dated August 
18, 1988, issued by Changsha Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration 
Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(g) 
“CZT 
EIO” 
means 
the 
Changsha-Zhuzhou-Xiangtan 
Economic 
Integration Office referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
(h) 
“CZT Region” means the region encompassing the Municipalities of 
Changsha, Zhuzhou and Xiangtan. 
(i) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
- 3 -
livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means 
any of such Displaced Persons. 
(j) 
“Environmental 
Management 
Plan” 
means 
the 
Hunan 
Urban 
Development Project Environmental Management Plan dated July 2004 prepared on 
behalf of Hunan, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement 
and which said Plan sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the 
Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank.  
(k) 
“Fiscal Year” means: (i) in respect of the Borrower, each period from 
January 1 through December 31 of the calendar year; and (ii) in respect of each of Hunan, 
the Project Municipalities and the Project Companies, each period from January 1 
through December 31 of the calendar year.  
(l) 
 “HEPB” means Hunan Environmental Protection Bureau, which is 
responsible for the enforcement of environmental laws and regulations in Hunan 
Province.  
(m) 
“Hunan” means the Borrower’s Province of Hunan, and any successor 
thereto. 
(n) 
“HWRB” means Hunan Water Resources Bureau which is responsible 
for the regulation of water resources in Hunan province.  
(o) 
“HZCCC” means Hunan Zhuxi Clean Coal Co. Ltd., a state-owned 
limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of April 16, 
2002, and to Business License No. 43020010044169 dated May 8, 2002, issued by 
Zhuzhou Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
(p) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Hunan 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(q) 
“Project Municipalities” means, collectively, Changsha, Xiangtan and 
Zhuzhou; and a “Project Municipality” means, individually, any of said Project 
Municipalities. 
(r) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework for Linked Projects dated March 2004 prepared on behalf of Hunan and 
referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out 
- 4 -
the policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, and the 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the 
preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required during the implementation of 
the Project, as said Policy Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
(s) 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of:  
(i) 
CMDC, Parts B, E.1, E.3 and F of the Project;  
(ii) 
CUDIC, Parts A, E.1 and F of the Project;  
(iii) 
HZCCC, Parts C, E.1 and F of the Project; 
(iv) 
XUDIC, Parts A, E.1 and F of the Project; 
(v) 
ZTTDC, Parts A, D, E.1 and F of the Project;  
(vi) 
ZUDIC, Parts A, E.1 and F of the Project; and  
(vii) 
CZT EIO, Part E.5 of the Project. 
(t) 
“Respective Project Companies” means in respect of: 
(i) 
Changsha: CUDIC and CMDC;  
(ii) 
Xiangtan: XUDIC, and ZTTDC; and 
(iii) 
Zhuzhou: ZUDIC. 
collectively, referred to as “Project Companies.”  
(u) 
“Respective Resettlement Action Plans” means in respect of: 
(i) 
Changsha: 
the 
Changsha 
Section 
RAP 
and 
Changsha 
Wastewater Treatment RAP; 
(ii) 
CUDIC: the Changsha Section RAP; 
(iii) 
CMDC: Changsha Wastewater Treatment RAP; 
(iv) 
Xiangtan: the Xiangtan Section RAP, Zhaoshan Section RAP 
and Xiangtan-Zhaoshan Scenic Area RAP; 
(v) 
XUDIC: the Xiangtan Section RAP; 
- 5 -
(vi) 
ZTTDC: Zhaoshan Section RAP and Xiangtan-Zhaoshan Scenic 
Area RAP; and 
(vii) 
Zhuzhou and ZUDIC: the Zhuzhou Section RAP. 
(v) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(w) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be 
entered into between Hunan and HZCCC and between each Project Municipality and 
each of its Project Companies pursuant to paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and supplements to said agreements; and a “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” 
means, individually, any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements.  
(x) 
“Xiangtan” means Xiangtan Municipality within Hunan Province, and 
any successor thereto.  
(y) 
 “Xiangtan Section RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the 
Corridor Component, Xiangtan Urban Section dated March 2004 and prepared by Hunan 
Water and Hydropower Reconnaissance and Design Institute, which set out the principles 
and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and the resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project in Xiangtan, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
(z) 
“Xiangtan-Zhaoshan Scenic Area RAP” means  Zhaoshan Scenic Area 
Component Resettlement Action Plan, dated March 2004 and prepared on behalf of 
Xiangtan, which set out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation for Displaced Persons for Part E of the Project, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(aa) 
 “XUDIC” means Xiangtan Urban Development Investment Company 
Limited, a state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter of October 22, 2003, and to Business License No. 4303001003649 dated July 11, 
2001, issued by Xiangtan Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, 
and any successor thereto. 
(bb) 
“XWRB” means Xiangtan Water Resources Bureau, which is 
responsible for the regulation of construction and management of water resource 
infrastructure in Xiangtan Muncipality.  
- 6 -
(cc) 
“Zhaoshan Section RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the 
Corridor Component, Zhaoshan Section dated March 2004 and prepared by Hunan Water 
and Hydropower Reconnaissance and Design Institute, which set out the principles and 
procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and the resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project in Zhaoshan, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
(dd) 
“Zhuzhou Section RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the 
Corridor Component, Zhuzhou Section dated March 2004 and prepared by Hunan Water 
and Hydropower Reconnaissance and Design Institute, which set out the principles and 
procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and the resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project in Zhuzhou, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
(ee) 
“Zhuzhou” means Zhuzhou Municipality within Hunan Province, and 
any successor thereto. 
(ff) 
“ZTTDC” means Zhaoshan Tourism and Trade Development Company, 
a state-owned company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of December 24, 
1992, and to Business License No. 4303041000137 dated December 24, 1992, issued by 
Xiangtan Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
(gg) 
“ZUDIC” means Zhuzhou Urban Development Investment Company 
Limited, a state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter of May 27, 2003,and to Business License No. 4302001004445 dated June 3, 
2003, issued by Zhuzhou Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, 
and any successor thereto. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Hunan and each of the Project 
Municipalities and their Respective Project Companies. 
- 7 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred seventy-two million Dollars ($172,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 (b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in  
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
- 8 -
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollar for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
- 9 -
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Hunan to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
Hunan therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Hunan 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Hunan on 
the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
- 10 -
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance 
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Hunan pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Hunan to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause Hunan to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
- 11 -
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Hunan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.  
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
Hunan will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c) 
Any of the parties to any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have 
failed to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
CUDIC, XUDIC, ZTTDC (for ZTTDC, with respect to Part A of the 
Project) and ZUDIC, and their respective Project Municipalities have each entered into a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.  
- 12 -
(b) 
Hunan, through CZT EIO, has entered into a contract or contracts with 
consulting firm or firms, acceptable to the Bank for the provision of technical assistance in 
institutional development and project management under Part E.1 of the Project.  
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank:  
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Hunan 
and is legally binding upon Hunan in accordance with its terms. 
(b) 
Each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in Section 6.01(a) 
has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding 
on said parties in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
- 13 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
By: /s/ Zou Jiayi 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  Works under Part A of the 
Project to be implemented by: 
 
(a) CUDIC 
32,380,000 
68% 
(b) XUDIC 
18,680,000 
69% 
(c) ZUDIC 
43,190,000 
69% 
(d) ZTTDC 
 
10,980,000 
69% 
(2)  Works under Parts B, C and D 
of the Project to be implemented 
by: 
 
(a) CMDC 
26,970,000 
42% 
(b) ZTTDC 
 
3,180,000 
48% 
(3)  Goods under Part A of the 
Project to be implemented by: 
 
(a) CUDIC 
2,750,000 
(b) CMDC 
19,300,000 
(c) HZCCC 
7,760,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 65% 
of local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally 
 
(4)  Consultants’ services required 
to carry out: 
 
(a) Parts E.1 and E.5 (by the 
Project Companies and CTZ-
EIO respectively) 
4,890,000 
(b) Part E.2(a) (by HWRB) 
610,000 
(c) Part E.3 (by CMDC) 
300,000 
 
91% 
- 15 -
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(d) Part E.4 (by HEPB) 
150,000 
 
(5)  Fee 
 
860,000 
Amount due under  
Section 2.04 of the 
Loan Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
 
172,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures. 
(b) 
The term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
(a) 
Expenditures under the Project prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $17,000,000 for 
expenditures by the Project Companies may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and 
(4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 15, 
2004.  
(b) 
Expenditures under Category 1(b) set forth in the table of paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule until the Bank shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that 
Xiangtan has adopted the Shaoyaogang EMP and Shaoyaogang RAP as defined and 
prepared in accordance with the provisions in paragraph 6 of Section II in Schedule 3 to 
the Project Agreement.   
(c) 
Expenditures under Categories 2(a) and 3(b) set forth in the table of 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank shall have: 
- 16 -
(i) 
received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that CMDC has 
entered into a contract with consultants, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide technical assistance for the 
institutional development of CMDC under Part E.3 of the 
Project; and  
(ii) 
notified the Borrower and Hunan of its receipt of received 
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been entered into between Changsha and CMDC 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement and that said Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its 
terms.  
(d) 
Expenditures under Category (3)(c)  set forth in the table of paragraph 1 
of this Schedule until the Bank shall have: 
(i) 
received, a plan, prepared in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, for the treatment of solid waste that will 
be generated by the new facilities to be constructed under Part C 
of the Project; and  
(ii) 
notified the Borrower and Hunan of its receipt of received 
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been entered into between Hunan and HZCCC in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement and that said Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its 
terms.  
(e) 
Expenditures under Category (2)(b) set forth in the table of paragraph 1 
of this Schedule until the Bank shall have:  
(i) 
received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that official approval 
has been given for works to be carried out on Zhaoshan Temple, 
which is listed with the Xiangtan Municipal Cultural Relics 
Bureau; and 
(ii) 
notified the Borrower and Hunan of its receipt of received 
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement with respect to Part D of the Project has been entered 
into between Xiangtan and ZTTDC in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement 
- 17 -
and that said Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally binding 
upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) 
works under contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent each;  
(b) 
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; and 
(c) 
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals, each 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent or $50,000 equivalent, respectively, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist Hunan in fostering greater economic 
integration of the region encompassed by the Municipalities of Changsha, Zhuzhou and 
Xiangtan by investing in priority infrastructure that addresses specific regional needs in a 
sustainable manner.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Flood Control Improvement and Scenic Road Construction
Raise and strengthen selected sections of the existing embankment and build new 
embankments and associated flood control facilities along the Xiang River in the CZT 
Region to improve flood control, and construct a scenic road and associated parking and 
road facilities along the embankment crest to provide access, further flood control 
protection and a recreational resource.   
Part B: Changsha Wastewater Management
Construct a secondary wastewater treatment plant in Xi Long Cun with a 
capacity of 120,000 cubic meter per day and a sewerage collection network, including 
sewer pipes, culverts, interceptors, and pumping main, all to serve the Changshanyuan 
drainage area.  
Part C: Zhuzhou Clean Coal 
Construct a 250,000 metric ton per year coal water mixture manufacturing plant 
and a 250,000 metric ton per year coal briquette manufacturing plant, and upgrade the 
capacity of the coal washing and preparation plant in Zhuzhou to 1,000,000 metric ton 
per year, all to provide clean coal products to replace the use of raw coal and fuel oil.  
Part D: Zhaoshan Scenic Area
Redevelop the Zhaoshan Scenic Area through rehabilitation and afforestation of 
natural grounds, including eight selected natural scenic locations within the park area, 
and construction of supporting infrastructure and utilities to facilitate access to and 
enhance use of the area.  
- 19 -
Part E: Institutional Strengthening 
1. 
Strengthen the capacity of Project Companies to implement the Project, including 
carrying out engineering design, procurement, construction supervision and quality 
control and construction management.   
2. 
(a) 
Strengthen the capacity of local Water Resources Bureaus with respect to 
the operation and management of dykes, scenic road operation and maintenance and 
flood warning including, the management of subcontractors, project planning, financial 
and quality control, general management of operations, operation and maintenance of 
pumps and gates, inspection of dyke structures, flood warning, monitoring, and 
evaluation of flood control; and (b) strengthen the capacity of the provincial Water 
Resources Bureau to interface with local Water Resources Bureaus for flood monitoring, 
evaluation and warning.  
3. 
Provide technical assistance to transform the Changsha Municipal Drainage 
Company into an autonomous public utility operating on commercial principles. 
4. 
Provide technical assistance to HEPB and the municipal environmental 
protection bureaus to strengthen their capacity to enforce and monitor compliance with 
environmental regulations and standards, which relate to sulfur standard content in coal, 
and to develop incentives for sulfur control in order to create a new market for clean coal 
products in the CZT Region. 
5. 
Strengthen the capacity of CZT EIO, at the provincial and municipal levels, in 
macro-economic planning, large scale integrated project management, definition of 
optimal integration methods, project management, public and stakeholder consultations, 
and financial and administrative management of projects.  
Part F: Resettlement
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Parts A, B and D of the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010.
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date of Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars) *
June 15, 2010  
 
 
 
 
 
4,980,000 
December 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
5,025,000 
June 15, 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
5,075,000 
December 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
5,120,000 
June 15, 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
5,170,000 
December 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
5,220,000 
June 15, 2013  
 
 
 
 
 
5,270,000 
December 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
5,320,000 
June 15, 2014  
 
 
 
 
 
5,370,000 
December 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
5,425,000 
June 15, 2015  
 
 
 
 
 
5,475,000 
December 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
5,525,000 
June 15, 2016  
 
 
 
 
 
5,580,000 
December 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
5,635,000 
June 15, 2017  
 
 
 
 
 
5,685,000 
December 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
5,740,000 
June 15, 2018  
 
 
 
 
 
5,795,000 
December 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
5,850,000 
June 15, 2019  
 
 
 
 
 
5,905,000 
December 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
5,965,000 
June 15, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
6,020,000 
December 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
6,080,000 
June 15, 2021  
 
 
 
 
 
6,135,000 
December 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
6,195,000 
June 15, 2022  
 
 
 
 
 
6,255,000 
December 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
6,315,000 
June 15, 2023  
 
 
 
 
 
6,375,000 
December 15, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
6,435,000 
June 15, 2024  
 
 
 
 
 
6,495,000 
December 15, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
6,565,000 
 
_______________ 
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $50,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
- 22 -
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
- 23 -
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
