CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7228-JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Amman Development Corridor Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 17, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7228-JO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 2004, between THE HASHEMITE 
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement dated March 27, 2004, between the Borrower and the 
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD), the AFESD has agreed to 
make a loan to the Borrower in a principal amount of twelve million Kuwaiti Dinars 
(KD.12,000,000) (the AFESD Loan) to assist in financing Part A.1 of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the AFESD Loan Agreement);  
(C) 
by an agreement dated December 22, 2003, between the Borrower and 
the European Investment Bank (EIB), the EIB has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower 
in a principal amount of thirty two million United State dollars (US$32,000,000) (the EIB 
Loan) to assist in financing Parts A.3 and B.2 of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement);  
(D) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from the EIB a grant in an amount 
equivalent to five hundred thousand United States dollars ($500,000) to assist in 
financing Part C.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and EIB; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “ADC” means the Amman Development Corridor, transport link from which 
new residential, commercial, and industrial developments will be coordinated and 
efficiently served; 
-2-
(b) “ADC Executive Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 
1 (d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(c) “ADC Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 1 
(c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(d)  “ADC Urban Development Technical Unit” means the technical unit 
referred to in paragraph 1 (e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(e) “AFESD” mean the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, a 
regional Pan-Arab development finance organization; 
(f) “Amman Metropolitan Area” means the Greater Amman Municipality, Zarqa 
Municipality, Ruseifa Municipality and surrounding areas; 
(g) “CRMP” means the Borrower’s Cultural Resources Mitigation Plan, 
incorporated in the EMP (as hereinafter defined), dated February 20, 2004 and referred to 
in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(h) “EIB” the European Investment Bank, the European Union’s long-term 
lending institution; 
(i) “Environmental 
Assessment” 
means 
the 
Borrower’s 
environmental 
assessment, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 20, 2004, 
including, inter alia: (i) the identification and assessment of potential environmental 
impact of activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of alternative 
measures; and (iii) the EMP (as hereinafter defined) detailing the appropriate mitigation, 
monitoring, institutional and management measures required for the implementation of 
the Project with a view to ensuring compliance of the activities referred to in sub-
paragraph (i) herein with said measures and to eliminating adverse environmental 
impacts, offsetting such impacts, or reducing them to acceptable levels; 
(j) “Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Borrower’s 
Environmental Management Plan, including the CRMP, all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 20, 2004, and incorporated in the Environmental 
Assessment; 
(k) “Fiscal Year” means a twelve-month period beginning on January 1 in any 
year and ending on December 31 of the same year; 
(l) “FMR” means each Financial Monitoring Report prepared by the Borrower 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(m) “GAM” means the Greater Amman Municipality; 
(n) “GCD” means the Borrower’s General Customs Department, or any 
successor thereto; 
(o)  “MoPIC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and International 
Cooperation, the Borrower’s representative for purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions, or any successor thereto; 
-3-
(p) “MoPWH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Housing or 
any successor thereto; 
(q) “MoT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport or any successor thereto; 
(r) “PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Borrower’s 
MoPWH and submitted to the Bank on March 20, 2004, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, setting out the principles and procedures governing 
the implementation of the Project, such plan to, inter alia: (i) define the respective roles 
and responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation of the Project; (ii) set 
forth the timetable of actions required to be carried out under the Project; (iii) identify the 
procedures to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the achievement of 
the objectives of the Project; (iv) set out the details for the implementation of the EMP 
including CRMP; and (v) set out the details for the implementation of the RAP (as 
hereinafter defined);  
(s) “PMT” 
means 
the 
Project 
Management 
Team 
referred 
to 
in  
paragraph 1 (f) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(t)  “RAP” means the Borrower’s Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action 
Plan dated February 12, 2004, approved by the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the 
compensation 
entitlement, 
institutional 
arrangements, 
implementation 
program, 
monitoring mechanism and cost estimates for the resettlement and rehabilitation of 
people affected by the implementation of the Project, disclosed locally and through the 
Bank’s InfoShop, and referred to in paragraphs 1 (b) and 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and 
(u) “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
-4-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty eight 
million United States Dollars (US$38,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Jordan on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
-5-
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MoPWH with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, economic, 
financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, PIP, RAP and the EMP. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
-6-
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through MoPWH, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
-7-
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s MoPWH progress 
reporting obligations set out in Schedule 5 paragraph 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall, through MoPWH, prepare and furnish to the Bank a FMR, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
-8-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b)  
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  
the AFESD Loan or the EIB Loan made to the Borrower 
for the financing Part A.1 with respect to AFESD and 
Parts A.3 and B.2 with respect to EIB, of the Project, 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the AFESD 
Loan Agreement or the EIB Loan Agreement as the case 
may be, or 
(B) 
the AFESD Loan or the EIB Loan shall have become 
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in 
paragraph (b)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso 
of paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
-9-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and International Cooperation of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
P.O. Box 555 
Amman 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Cable address:  
Facsimile: 
 
21319 NPC JO  
 
 
 
962-6-4649 341 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
-10-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Karim Kawar 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Joseph P. Saba 
Authorized Representative 
 
-11-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars
to be financed
(1) 
Works other than 
28,900,000 
85% 
 
for Parts A.1, A.3 
 
and B.2 of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods and Equipments 
100,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
100 % of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
4,900,000 
95% for individual 
 
services other than 
 
consultants 90% for 
 
for Parts A.1, A.3, B.2  
 
consulting firms 
 
and C.3 of the Project 
 
 
 
(4) 
Front-end Fee 
380,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
(5) 
Unallocated 
3,720,000 
 
________
TOTAL 
38,000,000
-12-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Category (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 2004; and 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1), until evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been furnished to the Bank showing that the land acquisition 
process has been completed in accordance with the procedures, and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in RAP. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts costing 
less than $3,000,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services by consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services by individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
-13-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) supporting more 
efficient transport and logistics services by removing key infrastructure transport 
bottlenecks; and (ii) providing access to affordable land for productive investment and 
urban development purposes. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Amman Ring Road
1. 
Carrying out works and provision of consultants’ services for the construction of 
about eighteen and one-half (18.5) kilometer two-lane, dual carriageway between the 
Desert Highway, and the Madounah Road Intersection, including, interchanges, access 
and service roads (Section 1 of the highway). 
2. 
Carrying out works and provision of consultants’ services for the construction of 
about fourteen and one-half (14.5) kilometer two-lane, dual carriageway connecting 
Section 1 and  the Zarqa Highway, including, interchanges, access and service roads 
(Section 2 of the highway). 
3. 
Carrying out works and provision of consultants’ services for the construction of: 
(i) about four and six-tenths (4.6) kilometer Zarqa Eastern Bypass, including an 
interchange at the intersection with the Zarqa/Syrian Boarder Highway; and (ii) about 
two and four-tenths (2.4) kilometer Zarqa Through Link to the city of Zarqa, including an 
interchange at the intersection with the Zarqa/Amman Highway; and a viaduct ending at 
the Yajouz Road Intersection (Section 3 of the highway). 
Part B: Inland Port and Trucking Industry
1. 
Carrying out works and provision of consultants’ services for the development of 
an inland port and to support the Borrower’s on-going program to reform the trucking 
industry.  
2. 
Carrying out works and provision of consultants’ services to relocate the Amman 
Customs Depot from its present location to a new site along the ADC.   
Part C: Technical Support and Project Management
1. 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to establish the ADC Urban 
Development Technical Unit. 
2. 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to strengthen MoPWH’s 
institutional capacity in, roads network planning, management functions; and improve 
coordination and integration of transport, urban development and land use planning 
initiatives. 
3. 
Provision of consultants’ services to assist in developing a master plan, including 
-14-
feasibility studies, land use plans and preliminary engineering designs for subsequent 
phases (second and third phases) of the Amman Ring Road. 
4. 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to: (i) establish and strengthen the 
capacity of PMT; (ii) strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to oversee and monitor 
implementation of the EMP and RAP; and (iii) strengthen the MoPWH capacity for 
Project management, monitoring and evaluation. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
-15-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and 
the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date by (b) the Installment Share for 
each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 1 and November 1 
 
Beginning November 1, 2009 through  
 
November 1, 2020 
              4.17% 
 
On May 1, 2021 
               4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
-16-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-17-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section I. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project, other than for Parts A.1, A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the 
Project, shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
-18-
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for work other than for Parts A.1, A.3 and 
B.2 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with shopping procedures and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of the first two contracts with any supplier 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services, other than for Parts A.1, A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the Project, 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and 
May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto and the following provisions of this Section II. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services for studies estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
-19-
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
In exceptional cases where narrow specialization or availability of providers shall 
not offer alternatives, services may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, terms of reference, short lists and applicable selection 
criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to 
the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated 
semiannually during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) 
as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
-20-
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
-21-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
Implementation, Management and Coordination of the Project
(a) 
The Borrower shall vest in MoPWH the overall responsibility for 
carrying out the Project. MoPWH shall carry out Part A of the Project and shall 
coordinate the implementation of: (i) Part B of the Project with GCD and MoT; and (ii) 
Part C of the Project with the Borrower’s Ministry of Municipal Affairs, GAM and other 
concerned municipalities and stakeholders. 
(b) 
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) above, MoPWH 
shall implement: (i) the Environmental Mitigation Plan with assistance from the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Environmental and other stakeholders; (ii) the RAP in close 
coordination with the municipalities of the Amman Metropolitan Area; and (iii) the 
CRMP in coordination with the Borrower’s  Department of Antiquities. 
(c) 
the Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, maintain the ADC Steering Committee 
established pursuant to the Council of Ministers’ Decision dated March 23, 2004, for the 
purpose of overseeing the implementation progress and the provision of guidance on 
promoting the Project. 
(d) 
the Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, maintain the ADC Executive Committee 
established pursuant to the Council of Ministers’ Decision dated March 23, 2004, for the 
purpose of managing and organizing the land usages within the Project’s area of 
influence. 
(e) 
The Borrower shall throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, maintain the ADC Urban Development 
Technical Unit under the ADC Executive Committee, such Unit shall serve a vital 
advance planning function, with no decision-making responsibilities. The Technical Unit 
shall, inter alia, be responsible for: (i) carrying out urban planning studies for 
development within the ADC’s zone of influence; (ii) promoting and guiding 
development within and along the ADC; (iii) assisting industrial and real estate 
developers to locate and prepare their subprojects; and (iv) assessing and monitoring 
transport and land use impacts of planned developments. 
(f) 
For the purpose of ensuring effective management of Project 
implementation, the Borrower shall throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, cause MoPWH to maintain the PMT, 
headed by a Project Manager and staffed with adequate number of engineers from 
MoPWH.  The PMT shall be responsible for: (i) reporting, monitoring and evaluation 
activities, the procurement process, financial management and audit requirements; 
(ii) ensuring effective implementation of the EMP and RAP; and (iii) working in close 
coordination with GCD and MoT appointed task teams, which are entrusted with 
contributing to the implementation of Part B of the Project.  
-22-
(g) 
To ensure timely implementation according to specification and within 
allocated budgets, the Borrower shall, through MoPWH, not later than September 30, 
2004, contract an international construction management firm to assist the PMT with 
overall Project management, and which shall provide both a core team of specialists and 
a pool of specialized expertise, on which to draw skills on an “as needed” basis, in 
support of the PMT. 
2. 
Reports and Reviews
(a) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2006 a report 
(Mid-Term review report) integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-
paragraph (i) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2007, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) 
above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives 
thereof, 
based 
on 
the 
conclusions 
and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.  
(b) 
The Mid-Term review referred to in subparagraph (a) (ii) above shall, 
inter alia, cover the (i) Project scope, design and implementation arrangements, 
(ii) implementation progress against agreed indicators in the PIP, (iii) procurement 
performance, (iv) performance of consultants, (v) fund flows, (vi) the progress of 
implementation of the RAP and the EMP, and (vii) any other issue agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank.  
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
-23-
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,900,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $6,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
-24-
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
-25-
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
