CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7212 PAK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Highways Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 26, 2004
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7212 PAK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated January 26, 2004, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement (the Development Credit Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the International Development Association (the Association), has requested 
the Bank to assist in financing the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the National Highway Authority (NHA) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the loan as provided in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to NHA, as provided in this Agreement; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and, by the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to one hundred five million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 105,900,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(D) 
the Borrower, the Association and the Bank intend, to the extent 
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for 
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan are made;  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank 
and NHA (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
- 2 -
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the IBRD 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the IBRD General Conditions, in the Development Credit Agreement, in the IDA General 
Conditions (as so defined) and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period; 
 
(b) 
“Loan Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) 
of this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five billion six 
hundred five million five hundred thousand Japanese Yen (¥5,605,500,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
- 3 -
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Loan Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, the first such installment to be payable on the eleventh 
(11th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the thirty-first (31st) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment except for the last one shall be equal to one twenty-oneth (1/21th) of said 
Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding 
amount of said Disbursed Amount.  
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after September 15, 2024, the Borrower 
shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
- 4 -
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;  
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
- 5 -
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, 
Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of, and Schedules 1 and 2 to, the Development Credit Agreement 
are hereby incorporated to this Agreement, and shall remain in full force and effect 
irrespective of the termination of the Development Credit Agreement, with the following 
modifications in said Articles and Schedules (unless the context otherwise requires): 
 
(a) 
the term “Association” shall be read as “Bank”; 
 
(b) 
the term “Credit” and “Credit Account” shall be read as “Loan” and 
“Loan Account” other than in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “this Agreement” and “the Development Credit Agreement” 
shall be read as “the Loan Agreement”. 
 
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has 
been notified otherwise by the Bank:  
 
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association with 
respect to any Project-related matter under the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken or given in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the 
Bank; and 
 
(b) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Association or to the Bank with respect to any Project-related matter pursuant to the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, including the General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements referred to therein, or of the Loan 
Agreement, shall be deemed to have been furnished to both the Association and the Bank. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be 
carried out by NHA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
- 6 -
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial and Other Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account are made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.  
 
Section 4.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that, during Project implementation, NHA will: (a) carry out its investment and 
maintenance program in compliance with the MTBF; (b) consult with the Bank on a 
timely basis each year on its annual investment and maintenance plan, giving due 
consideration to any comments and suggestions made by the Bank on such plan in the 
- 7 -
course of such consultation; and (c) in particular, fully implement the National Highway 
Improvement Program.  
 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
at the beginning of FY2004/05, take a decision regarding; (i) the 
treatment of existing stock of NHA debt; and (ii) the mode of all future NHA funding 
provided through the Borrower’s annual Public Sector Development Program, all with a 
view to making NHA financially sustainable commencing FY 2004/05; and  
 
(b) 
to those ends and not later than April 30, 2004, carry out a review of 
available options for financing NHA’s investment program on a sustainable basis, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and provide the Bank with a prior opportunity 
to comment on the findings and recommendations of such review. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
of the Development Credit Agreement shall have occurred. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.02 
of the Development Credit Agreement shall have occurred. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have 
been fulfilled. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
- 8 -
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer in that Division is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
The Secretary to the Government  
of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
 
 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC 
 
ECDIV-05-634  
 
(9251) 9205971 
 
Islamabad 
 
 
 
 
 
(9251) 9210734 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Waqar Masood Khan 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Abid Hasan 
 
Acting Country Director 
 
Pakistan 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 
 
Loan Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $5,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Loan Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Loan Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Loan Special 
Account has been duly opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, withdrawals 
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Loan Special 
Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Loan Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Loan Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Loan Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Loan 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Loan Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
- 11 -
other evidence to have been paid out of the Loan Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Loan Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Loan Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Loan Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Loan Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Loan Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
- 12 -
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Loan 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Loan Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Loan Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Loan Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
IBRD General Conditions. 
 
