CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4729-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Development of the State Statistics System for Monitoring the Social and Economic 
Transformation Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 15, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
- 2 -
LOAN NUMBER 4729-UA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 2004, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one (1) Category collectively; 
(b) 
“Eligible expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
- 2 -
(c) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
(d) 
“ICT” means information and communications technology; 
 
(e) 
“Inter-Agency Working Group” and “IWG” mean the group established 
by the Borrower pursuant to the Resolution No. 75-p of its Cabinet of Ministers dated  
February 11, 2004, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“Implementation and Grant Agreement” means the Implementation and 
Grant Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on behalf of the Borrower 
and the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU, as hereinafter further defined in paragraph (j) of 
this Section) to be entered into pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, setting forth the arrangements necessary for the carrying out of Part C.7 and 
C.8.2 of the Project by the NBU and for the making of a portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan available to NBU for the said purposes;  
(g) 
“MOEIEI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Issues of 
European Integration established and functioning under the provisions of the Decree of 
the President of Ukraine “On the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine,” No. 1159/2000,  
dated October 23, 2000, as amended from time to time; 
(h) 
“Ministry of Finance” and “MOF” mean the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance established and functioning under the provisions of the Decree of the President 
of Ukraine No. 1081/99, dated August 26, 1999, “On the Statute of the Ministry of 
Finance of Ukraine”; 
 
(i) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
(j) 
“NBU” means the Borrower’s Central Bank, the National Bank of 
Ukraine, established and functioning under the Borrower’s Law No. 679-XIV “On the 
National Bank of Ukraine”, dated May 20, 1999; 
 
(k) 
“NBU Legislation” means the set of legislative and regulatory acts 
governing the establishment and functioning of the NBU, and including, without 
limitation, the Borrower’s Law No. 679-XIV “On the National Bank of Ukraine”, dated 
May 20, 1999; 
 
- 3 -
(l) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual developed by the SSCU (as 
hereinafter defined in paragraph (o) of this Section) and adopted by its Order No. 49 
dated January 29, 2004, setting forth the mechanisms and procedures of Project 
management, in particular in the area of financial management and procurement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 2 of Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Project Implementation Unit” and “PIU” mean the Unit established 
pursuant to the Order No. 350 of the SSCU (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (o) of 
this Section) dated October 21, 2003, and referred to in paragraph 2 of Section I of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“State Statistics Committee of Ukraine” and “SSCU” mean the 
Borrower’s specially authorized central executive body responsible for the conducting of 
state statistical activity in the Borrower’s territory, established and functioning pursuant 
to the provisions of the Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 734/97 dated  
July 29, 1997 “On Establishment of the State Committee of Ukraine for Statistics”, the 
Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 1573/99, dated December 15, 1999 “On 
Introducing Changes to the Law of Ukraine on State Statistics”, and the Borrower’s Law 
No. 1922-III, dated July 13, 2000, “On the Change of the Structure of Executive Bodies,” 
as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
 
(p) 
“State Statistical System of Ukraine” means the Borrower’s system of 
the state statistics bodies which under Article 11 of the Borrower’s Law No. 1922-III, 
dated July 13, 2000, regarding “On Introducing Changes to the Law of Ukraine on the 
State Statistics,” and consists of: (i) the specially authorized central executive body in the 
field of statistics – the SSCU; (ii) territorial state statistics bodies of the Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea, regions, districts and cities/towns created according to the law by the 
SSCU; and (iii) functional state statistics bodies – enterprises, establishments and 
institutions created by and subordinated to the SSCU in the domain of statistics in 
accordance with legislation, as well as other central executive bodies and NBU, which 
are developers of statistical data. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty-two 
million Dollars ($32,000,000). 
- 4 -
Section 2.02. 
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the 
reasonable cost of goods, technical services and services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a foreign commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. 
(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus the LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
- 5 -
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 6 -
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out, respectively: (i) Parts A, B, C.1, C.2, C.3, 
C.4, C.5, C.8.1, C.9, C.10, E and F of the Project, through the SSCU; (ii) Part C.6 of the 
Project, through the MOF; (iii) Parts C.7 and C.8.2 of the Project, through the NBU; and 
(iv) Part D of the Project, through the MOE, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, fiscal, 
statistical and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make available to the NBU on a grant basis the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) set forth 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under the Implementation and Grant 
Agreement to be entered into between the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Borrower 
and the NBU under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower, through MOF, shall exercise its rights under the 
Implementation and Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Implementation and Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.  
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the procurement of the 
goods and technical services and the selection and employment of the consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the PIU, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
- 7 -
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through the SSCU and with the assistance of 
the PIU, shall maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the SSCU and with the assistance of the PIU, 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
SSCU and with the assistance of the PIU, shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
- 8 -
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through SSCU and with the assistance of the PIU, shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report,   showing 
 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as of the 
 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent quarter, and shall cover such quarter.  
 
- 9 -
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The NBU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Implementation and Grant Agreement. 
(b) 
The NBU Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the NBU or its ability to carry out Parts C.7 and C.8.2 of the Project. 
 
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, any of the events specified in  
Section 5.01 of the Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Implementation and Grant Agreement has been 
executed between the MOF on behalf of the Borrower and the NBU. 
Section 6.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Implementation and Grant 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the MOF on behalf of the Borrower 
and the NBU and is legally binding upon the MOF on behalf of the Borrower and the 
NBU in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 10 - 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 
Kyiv, 01008 
 
Ukraine 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
131450  
 
(380-44) 201-5685 
 
(380-44) 253-8243 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 11 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By:  /s/  Mykola Yanovych Azarov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: 
/s/  Luca Barbone 
 
Country Director 
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova 
Europe and Central Asia 
- 12 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:  
 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods and technical 
 
100% of foreign 
 
services: 
 
expenditures, 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(a)  under Parts C.7 and 
39,000 
 
 
C.8.2 of the Project 
 
(b) under Parts A, B, C.1,  
 17,878,000 
 
C.2, C.3, C.4, C.5, C.8.1, 
 
C.9, C.10, E and F the 
 
Project 
 
(c) under Part D of the Project 
152,000 
 
(d) under Part C.6 of the Project 
17,000 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ and Training 
 
 
100% for foreign 
 
services, including services 
 
 
consulting firms and 
 
for audits: 
 
foreign individual  
 
consultants, 87% for 
 
local consulting firms, 
 
and 92% for local 
 
individual consultants 
 
(a)   under Parts C.7 and  
814,000 
 
C.8.2 of the Project 
- 13 - 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(b) under Parts A, B, C.1 
  10,704,000 
 
C.2, C.3, C.4, C.5, C.8.1, 
 
C.9, C.10, E and F of  
 
the Project  
 
(c) under Part D of the Project 
612,000 
 
(d) under Part C.6 of the Project 
521,000 
 
(3) 
Study tours and 
 37,000 
100% 
 
training under 
 
Part F of the Project 
 
(4) 
Operating Costs 
114,000 
90% through December  
 
31, 2005, 80% through 
 
December 31, 2006, 
 
60% through December 
 
31, 2007, and 40% 
 
through December 31, 
 
2009
(5) 
Front-end fee 
320,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
792,000
TOTAL 
 32,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
- 14 - 
(c) 
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of a territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower;  
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of, or is resident in the territory of the Borrower; and 
(g) 
the term “Operating costs” means expenditures incurred to finance the 
reasonable and necessary expenses for the operations, administration and ordinary 
maintenance of the PIU, and which include rent, utilities, office equipment, supplies, 
software, and the cost of communications, transportation and operational travel of the 
staff of the PIU. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, but excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of 
Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) services of consulting firms and 
training, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, but excluding those 
referred to in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) of Part D of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(iii) services of individual consultants, under contracts costing less than $25,000 
equivalent each, but excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Part D of Section II 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (iv) study tours and training under paragraph 3 of 
Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and Operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 15 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to build a sustainable state statistical system which 
would efficiently and effectively collect, process and disseminate accurate, timely, 
coherent and trustworthy statistical data concerning the economy and social conditions of 
the Borrower required by the government, business and society to make informed 
decisions, and encompassing a comprehensive reform of the State Statistical System of 
Ukraine, primarily through the modernization of the State Statistical Committee, and:  
(i) the improvement of the statistical policy and the regulatory and institutional 
framework, including issues such as independence and confidentiality, and the adequacy 
of legislation and the dialogue with data users; (ii) the establishment of a system for 
human resource development; (iii) the development of statistical infrastructure, including 
such aspects as business registers, sampling frames, classifications, database structures 
and geographic information systems; and (iv) the upgrading and development of 
statistical operations and procedures, physical infrastructure and equipment. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts (components), subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A: Organizational Development and Management
1. 
Streamlining of the Organizational Set-up of the Borrower’s State Statistical 
System
Carrying out of a comprehensive program of organizational restructuring of the 
SSCU, including modernization of its field activities with a view to create a more 
compact regional structure with well-trained staff, aimed at: (i) improving the 
modification of data collection, processing, storage and transfer system; (ii) introducing 
new elements or strengthening the existing elements of statistical infrastructure; and  
(iii) introducing further requirements for the statistical information dissemination system, 
and including the establishment of new divisions and liquidation of the old ones, the 
proper re-allocation of functions between central and regional offices as well as between 
subject-matter and functional departments and divisions, and application of more 
functional approach versus the subject-matter. 
 
2. 
Building of Institutional Management Systems
Carrying out of a program designed to establish modern management systems in 
the following areas:  
 
- 16 - 
(a) 
Financial Management and Planning (strategic and operational), on the 
basis of a programmatic approach to financing and the introduction of new procedures of 
developing of core data collection plan for the central and regional levels to achieve more 
efficacious priority setting for statistical works.  
 
(b) 
Human Resources Management, through the upgrading of personnel 
selection and training, the introduction of staff performance incentives, and the 
improvement of the remuneration system by linking it to the performance and developing 
job specifications for managers and regular staff of the state statistics bodies, including 
the establishment of the staff management information system and, on the basis thereof, 
the introduction of a time-reporting and personnel performance assessment system.  
 
(c) 
Quality Management, through the building of a framework therefor 
based on principles that include user demand satisfaction, establishment of partnership 
with respondents and administrative data providers and, within the SSCU, continuous 
incentives for quality improvement and full involvement of staff in quality improvement 
initiatives. 
 
(d) 
Document Management, through the establishment of a single information 
system therefor designed to increase the efficiency of operations of staff, units and 
organization in the whole, decrease the time of information dissemination, introduce 
unified electronic document processing standard, and enable the protection of and timely 
data access. 
 
3. 
Strengthening of the System of Staff Training and Re-training
Launching of a system of continuous and obligatory staff training, coherent with 
the professional development, planning and promotion procedures developed under the 
SSCU’s statistical training strategy, encompassing the establishment of training centers 
furnished with appropriate equipment, modern training programs and manuals, and 
creation of a Statistical Training Consultative Council and a special unit at the SSCU 
headquarters to support statistical training coordination. 
 
4. 
Development of Statistical Data Dissemination and Users’ Education Strategy
Implementation of a practice of comprehensive assessment of needs of statistical 
data users, including  improvement of formats and modes of information presentation and 
dissemination, in particular, through the application of geographical information systems, 
and enhancement of the cooperation with users and the understanding by the users of 
statistical data and relevant methodology, through the development of a users’ education 
strategy, the carrying out of periodic users’ satisfaction surveys, and the establishment of 
the National Statistical Council within the SSCU. 
 
- 17 - 
5. 
Improvement of Relations with Respondents and Data Providers
Carrying out of workshops and surveys designed to allow the SSCU to improve 
the quality of input data, make a more extensive use of administrative data instead of or 
together with survey data, and reduce the overall respondent burden.  
 
Part B: Statistical Infrastructure
Improvement of the basic elements of the statistical infrastructure, encompassing 
the improvement of a household sample frame, the establishment of the statistical 
register, the introduction of the unified classification system, and the improvement of the 
legislative base of state statistical system, specifically through: (i) the establishment of a 
full-scale household sample frame based on the 2001 population Census so as to increase 
household surveys versatility and representation of the small area survey data; (ii) the 
monitoring of the structural changes in economy in the course of creation, restructuring 
and liquidation of economic entities; and (iii) the introduction of the conditions necessary 
for the extensive application of sample surveys.  
 
Part C: Data Development
Carrying out of a comprehensive program aimed at upgrading, improving and 
streamlining data collection mechanisms for: (1) household sample surveys;  
(2) integrated annual enterprise statistics; and (3) sub-annual surveys of economic 
activities, specifically through: (i) the improvement of multipurpose sample household 
surveys; (ii) the integration of the existing enterprise surveys; (iii) the revision of data 
collection periodicity; and (iv) the introduction of sampling methods into enterprise 
surveys, all with the aim for reorienting data content towards topical issues, reducing the 
lengths of questionnaires and improving their design, reducing sample sizes through 
increased use of sampling procedures, and consolidating requests for annual data into a 
single integrated annual survey and requests for sub-annual data into a single integrated 
survey, and fully implementing international standards in the major data categories 
pertaining to: (4) national accounts; (5) price statistics; (6) government finance statistics; 
(7) money and banking statistics; (8.1) foreign trade and (8.2) balance of payments; (9) 
demography, social statistics and poverty statistics; and (10) other relevant statistics, 
through enhancement of source data and improvement in compilation methodology, and 
the carrying out of selected pilots surveys to test the upgraded/newly introduced surveys. 
 
- 18 - 
Part D: Strengthening of Information Basis for Decision-making and Forecasting in the
Ministry of Economy and Issues of European Integration
1. 
Modernization of data presentation and processing for analytical purposes
Creation of a special-purpose information system to support decision making and 
forecasting and facilitate the analytical work through integration of various data sets, 
including the formulation of methodological recommendations on analytical activities 
and the development and implementation of combining analysis and forecasting stages, 
and the provision of modern software and hardware as required therefor. 
 
2. 
Application of New short- and Medium-term Forecasting models
Upgrading of the capacity of the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Issues of 
European Integration to make reliable short and medium-term economic forecasts, 
encompassing the development of: (i) a forecasting methodology for the main 
macroeconomic indicators with the use of newly developed short- and medium-term 
forecasting models which take into account specific behavior of economic variables in 
transitional period, capabilities of the Ukrainian statistics system to ensure timeliness, 
consistency, accessibility and quality of statistical data; and (ii) methodology and practical 
implementation of forecasting models on the basis of quarterly national accounts and 
seasonally adjusted data.  
 
Part E: Introduction of Modern Information and Communication Technology
Upgrading of information and communications technology on the basis of the 
implementation of a single, coherent and up-to-date ICT Strategy, including specifically 
the upgrading of: desktop hardware and software, the internal computer network, the 
database management and data processing systems, the security, archiving and 
confidentiality protection systems, and the data dissemination and exchange systems, as 
follows: 
 
1. 
Development of a Detailed Design for State Statistics System Informatization
Development of a detailed design of the state statistics system ICT modernization 
strategy, with the aim of serving as a foundation for the introduction of more effective 
technological processes on the basis of standard paperless technological schemes of 
statistical data processing. 
 
2. 
Source Data Collection, Processing and Storage Systems
Carrying out of a program aimed to: (i) develop unified survey management 
systems including appropriate subsystems for primary data input, storage and processing, 
which could be customized to any questionnaire according to its description in the form 
of metadata; (ii) introduce electronic means of data collection; (iii) develop electronic 
- 19 - 
data exchange (EDI) technology for administrative data; (iv) establishment of central data 
warehouse as well as data storage facilities for primary data at the regional (oblast) and 
district (rayon) levels; (v) upgrade data processing software; and (vi) establish a system 
for survey meta-data storage and management. 
 
3. 
Storage and Dissemination of Statistical Output
Establishment of the necessary ICT facilities, such as Unified output data- and 
metadata base with an on-line access, for a single source of information for various types 
of data dissemination, both traditional, and electronic, including computerization of 
SSCU publications and data dissemination, particularly via Internet, and introduction of 
electronic user-tailored dissemination, made possible with the creation of the Unified 
database. 
 
4. 
Ensuring Data Confidentiality and Security
Development of a general concept of confidentiality protection and statistical 
data security with a view to define the structure and configuration of main facilities for 
data protection, taking into account various aspects of data confidentiality maintenance 
and transparency of statistical agency’s operation, and deliberation of organizational, 
normative and technical features of safety to be integrated in all the subsystems related to 
data collection, processing, storage and dissemination.   
 
5. 
Technical Infrastructure
Upgrading of ICT equipment, including equipment for: (i) communication 
facilities to establish local area networks at the headquarters and region (oblast) statistics 
departments, as well as a corporate network, to unite the local area networks and ensure 
on-line access to the centrally stored data and to applications based on client-server 
architecture, contained in the configuration of the distributed enterprise system; (ii) server 
equipment to enable operation of a number of subsystems at central and regional levels, 
such as internal and external communications, data storage, processing and 
dissemination; (iii) personal computers and printers; and (iv) other related office 
equipment.  
 
6. 
Computerization and Human Resources
Provision of specialized training to the SSCU ICT staff, including training on 
administration of local and corporate networks, databases, data storage and protection 
system, Internet technology, optical character recognition technology, hardware 
maintenance, application of modern information technology, and professional training of 
statisticians in the area of applied information technologies, in particular, through 
introduction of remote training courses. 
 
- 20 - 
Part F: Project Management
Strengthening of the PIU, specially in the areas of procurement and financial 
management, as to enable it to properly coordinate and promote the Project activities and 
carry out the audits of the Loan, including provision of management training to the PIU 
staff, office equipment, and software. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
- 21 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
August 15, 2009 
945,000 
February 15, 2010 
955,000 
August 15, 2010 
960,000 
February 15, 2011 
970,000 
August 15, 2011 
975,000 
February 15, 2012 
985,000 
August 15, 2012 
995,000 
February 15, 2013 
1,000,000 
August 15, 2013 
1,010,000 
February 15, 2014 
1,020,000 
August 15, 2014 
1,025,000 
February 15, 2015 
1,035,000 
August 15, 2015 
1,045,000 
February 15, 2016 
1,050,000 
August 15, 2016 
1,060,000 
February 15, 2017 
1,070,000 
August 15, 2017 
1,075,000 
February 15, 2018 
1,085,000 
August 15, 2018 
1,095,000 
February 15, 2019 
1,105,000 
August 15, 2019 
1,115,000 
February 1 5, 2020 
1,120,000 
August 15, 2020 
1,130,000 
February 15, 2021 
1,140,000 
August 15, 2021 
1,150,000 
February 1 5, 2022 
1,160,000 
August 15, 2022 
1,170,000 
February 15, 2023 
1,180,000 
August 15, 2023 
1,185,000 
February 15, 2024 
1,190,000 
 
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
- 22 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Technical Services 
Part A: General
Goods and technical services shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (ii) the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section: (i) goods; and  
(ii) technical services consisting of reproduction of informational materials under Part A 
of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and technical services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B: 
(a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and technical services shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract for goods estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
- 23 - 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Technical services consisting of reproduction of informational materials under 
Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Direct Contracting
Goods, including software licenses and software upgrades, which are of a 
proprietary nature and costing $2,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts or any requests for 
price quotations, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and technical services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
- 24 - 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and technical services to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two (2) contracts for technical services to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part C above, 
regardless of the cost thereof; (ii) first two (2) contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with each of the procedures referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part C above, 
regardless of the cost thereof; and (iii) each contract for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 4 of Part C above, regardless of 
the cost thereof, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services and training shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the 
provisions of Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto; and (ii) the following provisions 
of this Section. 
- 25 - 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services and 
training shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Least-cost Selection
Services for the organization of training courses and study tours and for audits 
under Part F of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance and training estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which qualify under any of the criterion set forth in the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (i) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (ii) tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.4 
- 26 - 
of the Consultant Guidelines may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior 
approval of the Bank. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
and training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (ii) first two (2) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms to be selected in accordance with each 
of the procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part C above, regardless of the cost 
thereof; (iii) each contract for the employment of consulting firms to be selected in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 3 of Part C above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or more; and (ii) first two (2) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Part C above, regardless of the cost thereof, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience and the terms 
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
- 27 - 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that prior review and approval by the Bank shall still apply to 
the terms of reference for such contracts.  
- 28 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Section I.
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Inter-Agency Working Group
The Borrower, through the SSCU, shall maintain the Inter-Agency Working 
Group (IWG) throughout Project implementation under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank and with human, financial and technical resources adequate to enable it to 
effectively coordinate and manage each Part of the Project with each of the MOEIE, the 
MOF and the NBU.  To that end, the IWG shall be chaired by the head of the SSCU and 
its composition shall include two (2) representatives with status of Deputy 
Minister/Chairman, and the head of the respective structural unit, from each of the 
MOEIE, the MOF, the SSCU, and the NBU.  The IWG may also comprise 
representatives of other interested ministries and agencies.  More specifically, the 
responsibilities vested on the IWG shall include action planning, monitoring of allocation 
and use of Loan proceeds.   
 
2. 
Project Implementation Unit
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the Project implementation the Project 
Implementation Unit under terms of reference and with resources and a composition 
satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes of the day-to-day management of the Project.  
The said Unit shall be headed by its manager, who shall report directly to SSCU official 
responsible for general Project management.  The composition of the PIU shall include, 
inter alia, one (1) financial management, one (1) accountant, one (1) procurement 
specialist, and one (1) ICT procurement specialist.  The PIU shall be responsible, inter 
alia, for daily Project management, preparation of documents for procurement of goods 
and technical services and for selection and employment of consultants’ services and 
preparation of the reports referred to in paragraph 4 of Section II of this Schedule. 
Composition and authorities of PIU shall be defined in Operations Manual. 
 
Section II.
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Annual Work Program
The Borrower, through the SCSU, shall: (i) prepare and submit for the Bank’s 
comments and approval, not later than October 1 of each Fiscal Year, a draft annual work 
program for the following Fiscal Year including, inter alia, a detailed description of 
planned activities for procurement of goods and technical services and selection and 
- 29 - 
employment of consultants’ services and sources and uses of funds; and (ii) adopt and 
carry out the annual work program in the form and substance approved by the Bank.  
 
2. 
Operations Manual
The Borrower, through the SSCU, shall take all action required to ensure that the 
Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the SSCU do not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operations 
Manual or any provision thereof. 
3. 
Study Tours and Training for Thematic Areas under Part F of the Project
For the purposes of the study tours and the training for thematic areas to be 
provided under Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval every six (6) months, the content of 
each such study tours and training, including an explanation on how such study tours and 
training is consistent and conducive to the objectives of the Project and whether it offers 
the best price/quality ratio, as well as the schedule for its implementation; 
 
(b) 
select the participants and trainees in accordance with a transparent 
process and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the study tours and training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and 
 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each study tours and training and the benefits to be 
derived therefrom. 
 
4. 
Progress Reports 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, with the assistance of the PIU, commencing on  
October 1, 2004 and thereafter, not later than January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in 
each calendar year and until Project completion, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
consolidated progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project during the 
preceding quarter/semester of the calendar year.   
 
- 30 - 
5. 
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through the SSCU, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about October 1, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 1, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
- 31 - 
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4)  set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, technical services and services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $2,300,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account; pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $800,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
- 32 - 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 33 - 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
