CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7169-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Rural and Main Roads Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 27, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7169 -GU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 2004, between THE REPUBLIC OF 
GUATEMALA 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has enacted the “Ley General de Descentralización”
(Decentralization Law) (Decree No. 14-2002) dated July 1, 2002, with the objective of 
promoting financial and administrative decentralization by transferring power from its 
central government to its municipalities; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has enacted the “Código Municipal” (Municipal Code) 
(Decree No. 12-2002) dated July 1, 2002, with the objective of, inter alia, regulating the 
association of municipalities to promote administrative decentralization and rural 
development;  
 
(D) 
the Borrower is developing a rural roads and transport strategy (the Rural 
Roads and Transport Strategy) with the objective of addressing, inter alia, long term 
environmental and social sustainability issues in the rural road sector through: (i) the 
definition of an environmental and social policy for rural roads; (ii) the improvement of 
road design and construction practices through the application of environmental manuals 
for design, construction and enhanced supervision; (iii) the promotion of community 
involvement and participation in the definition of priorities for project development; (iv) 
the ensuring of a sustainable maintenance of rehabilitated roads through community 
enterprises and other options to be defined in this strategy; and (v) the strengthening of 
the environmental management capacity of key actors involved; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
- 2 -
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Work Program” means any of the annual work programs 
referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Associations” means collectively the Association of Municipalities in 
Southwest Huehuetenango (Mancomunidad de Municipios del Sur Occidente de 
Huehuetenango - MAMSOHUE) and the Association of Municipalities of the Huista 
Region of Huehuetenango (Mancomunidad de la Región Huista de Huehuetenango - 
HUISTA), both duly established as separate entities with legal personality in accordance 
with the Borrower’s internal legislation; 
 
(c) 
"Association Agreement" means each agreement to be entered into 
between INFOM (as hereinafter defined) and an Association which shall stipulate, inter 
alia, the terms and conditions under which INFOM and the Association shall agree to 
coordinate the carrying out of Parts A and  C.1 of the Project; 
 
(d) 
“BANGUAT” means the Borrower’s central bank; 
 
(e) 
"Departmental Roads Subproject" means a project which consists of the 
rehabilitation and/or improvement of selected main, secondary and departmental roads 
(as described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) and is approved in accordance 
with the criteria set forth in the DGC Operational Manual;  
 
(f) 
“DGC” means Dirección General de Caminos,
the Borrower’s 
Directorate of Roads; 
 
(g) 
“DGC Operational Manual” means DGC’s operational manual for the 
Project referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“DGC PCU”, “COFINEX” means the Project Coordination Unit 
established within DGC; 
 
- 3 -
(i) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
a particular Subproject (as hereinafter defined), had or would have their: (i) standard of 
living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed of movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets adversely 
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Displaced Person” means any Displaced 
Persons; 
 
(j) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s environmental 
impact framework for the Project, dated December 17, 2002, that contains specific 
environmental rules and procedures for Project implementation; 
 
(k) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“INFOM” means Instituto de Fomento Municipal, the Borrower’s 
Municipal Development Institute; 
 
(m) 
“INFOM Operational Manual” means INFOM’s operational manual for 
the Project referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“INFOM PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established within 
INFOM; 
 
(o) 
“Municipal Rural Roads Subproject” means a project which consists of 
the rehabilitation, improvement and/or maintenance of selected municipal rural roads (as 
described in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) and is approved in accordance with 
the criteria set forth in the INFOM Operational Manual; 
 
(p) 
“Peace Accords” means the peace accords signed by the Borrower, dated 
December 29, 1996; 
 
(q) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators, set forth in the 
Supplemental Letter (as hereinafter defined), for monitoring and evaluating progress 
towards the attainment of Project objectives; 
 
(r) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means a plan for the implementation of 
the Project; 
 
(s) 
“RMRP I” means the Rural and Main Roads Project financed in part with 
the proceeds of Loan No. 4260-GU as provided in the Loan Agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and the Bank on September 11, 1998; 
 
- 4 -
(t) 
“Social Management Plan” means the Borrower’s social management 
plan for the Project, dated January 14, 2003, that contains the rules and procedures for 
mitigating potential impacts on the livelihood of communities in the Project area; 
 
(u) 
“Special Accounts” means collectively the Special Account A and the 
Special Account B; 
 
(v) 
“Special Account A” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) 
(A) of this Agreement; 
 
(w) 
"Special Account B” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) 
(B) of this Agreement; 
 
(x) 
“Subproject” means a Departmental Rural Roads Subproject or a 
Municipal Rural Roads Subproject or both;  
 
(y) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and INFOM pursuant to Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement which shall 
stipulate, inter alia, the terms and conditions under which INFOM and the Borrower shall 
agree to coordinate the carrying out of Parts A and C.1 of the Project, as the same may be 
amended form time to time; and  
 
(z) 
“Supplemental Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower and INFOM to the Bank setting forth: (i) the Performance Indicators; (ii) the 
principles and guidelines to be followed by the Borrower and INFOM in the preparation 
of resettlement action plans as referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement; and (iii) the 
scope of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement, as such 
letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty six million 
seven hundred thousand Dollars ($46,700,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
- 5 -
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of: (A) Parts A and C.1 of 
the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special 
deposit account (the Special Account A); and (B) Parts B and 
C.2 of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate 
special deposit account (the Special Account B), both in 
BANGUAT and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank; and 
 
(ii) 
deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee.  Such fee shall be payable no later than sixty (60) 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
- 6 -
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
 
(i)  
through DGC carry out Parts B and C.2 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
managerial, 
administrative, 
financial, 
legal, 
ecological, 
environmental and conservation practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project; and 
 
- 7 -
(ii) 
(A) 
cause INFOM pursuant to the provisions of the 
Subsidiary Agreement to: 
 
(I) 
carry out Parts A and C.1 of the Project; and 
 
(II) 
cause each Association, pursuant to the 
provisions of its Association Agreement with 
INFOM, to assist in the carrying out of Part A 
and C.1 of the Project within the Association’s 
territory, all with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, 
financial, 
legal, 
ecological, 
environmental and conservation practices;  
 
(B) 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable INFOM to 
carry out Parts A and C.1 of the Project and the 
Associations to assist in the carrying out of Parts A and 
C.1 of the Project; and 
 
(C) 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such Parts of 
the Project by INFOM and the Associations. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower 
(through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, carry out the Project in accordance 
with: (i) the Environmental Management Plan; (ii) the Social Management Plan; (iii) the 
DGC Operational Manual; (iv) the INFOM Operational Manual; and (v) the Project 
Implementation Plan, as applicable, so as to achieve the Performance Indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: (i) through DGC, issue an operational manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, specific provisions on detailed 
arrangements for the carrying out of Parts B and C.2 of the Project; and (ii) cause 
INFOM to issue an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia,
specific provisions on: (A) detailed arrangements for the carrying out of Parts A and C.1 
of the Project; (B) terms and conditions of the Association Agreement; and (C) terms and 
conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
(c) 
If any provision of the DGC Operational Manual or INFOM Operational 
Manual or the Project Implementation Plan is inconsistent with a provision of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
- 8 -
(d) 
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Parts A and C.1 of the Project to INFOM under a subsidiary agreement (the 
Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and INFOM, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, INFOM’s 
obligation to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Article IV of this 
Agreement with regard to Parts A and C.1 of the Project. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower and INFOM on said plan. 
 
Section 3.05.  (a) The Borrower (through DGC) shall: (i) maintain and continue 
to operate during the implementation of the Project the DGC PCU; and (ii) cause INFOM 
to maintain and continue to operate during the implementation of the Project the INFOM 
PCU (pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement), both with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to coordinate the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the DGC PCU and the INFOM PCU 
(pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement) are staffed at all times during the implementation 
of the Project with core professional staff in numbers and with experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, and selected in accordance with competitive and transparent procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Any change of key staff in the DGC PCU and the INFOM PCU 
shall only be made with the Bank’s prior agreement. 
 
- 9 -
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
 
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, not later than 
thirty days after the conclusion of each semester during the implementation of the 
Project, starting for the semester which begins on January and ends on June, 2005, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request with respect to the progress made in carrying out the Project during 
the semester immediately preceding the date of presentation of such report. 
 
Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, not 
later than July of each year of Project implementation, starting in July 2005, review 
jointly with the Bank and the Associations the progress made in:  (i) carrying out the 
Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the Project, based on the Performance 
Indicators.  As part of each such review the Bank may require the Borrower (through 
DGC) to prepare, and cause INFOM to prepare, an annual work program, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to make adjustments to the Project Implementation Plan.  In such event, the 
Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, not later than forty five days 
after the conclusion of each such review furnish the Annual Work Program to the Bank 
and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, the Annual Work Program in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
As part of the annual review to be held not later than March, 2007, the 
Borrower shall carry out with the Bank and INFOM a Project implementation mid-term 
review of such scope as set forth in the Supplemental Letter. 
 
Section 3.09. (a) Prior to the approval of any proposed civil work to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause 
INFOM to, apply the Environmental Management Plan, in order to: 
 
(i) 
carry out an environmental screening and assessment of such 
proposed civil work, as prescribed in the DGC Operational 
Manual and INFOM Operational Manual; and 
 
(ii) 
prepare recommendations for the prevention, mitigation and 
remediation of any potential environmental damage arising from 
the implementation of such proposed civil works. 
 
(b) 
During the implementation of any civil works, the Borrower (through 
DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, have the recommendations of the environmental 
- 10 -
assessment referred to in subparagraph (a) (i) above carried out, as prescribed in the DGC 
Operational Manual and the INFOM Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.10. In the event that the findings of the environmental assessment to be 
carried out as part of the identification of each Subproject indicate that resettlement of 
population is required in the area in which a particular Subproject will be carried out 
and/or that individuals living in such area will become Displaced Persons as a result of 
the carrying out of such Subproject, the Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause 
INFOM to, prior to the carrying out of such Subproject: (i) prepare (in accordance with 
the principles and guidelines set forth in the Supplemental Letter) and furnish to the Bank 
a resettlement action plan for such Displaced Persons, satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) 
promptly thereafter, carry out or cause to be carried out the corresponding resettlement 
action plan referred to in (i) herein in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 3.11  The Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, if 
applicable, include in the bidding documents for the carrying out of each Departmental 
Rural Roads Subproject and Municipal Rural Roads Subproject, as the case may be, the 
obligation of the bidder to take prior to the initiation of any works under such Subproject 
the necessary actions to address any potential negative environmental impact identified in 
the respective environmental assessment to be carried out as part of the identification of 
each such subproject. 
 
Section 3.12. The Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, 
prior to the carrying out of a Subproject by the Borrower (through DGC) or INFOM, as 
the case may be, carry out consultations in accordance with the Peace Accords, in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank, with the population living in the area in which such 
Subproject will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, 
establish and maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower (through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
- 11 -
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower (through 
DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower (through DGC) shall, 
and shall cause INFOM to, prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
- 12 -
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that INFOM has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the DGC Operational Manual and the INFOM Operational Manual 
have been issued and put into effect; 
 
(b) 
that the DGC PCU and the INFOM PCU have been properly staffed as 
set forth in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto;  
 
(d) 
that the Association Agreements have been executed by the parties 
thereto; and 
- 13 -
(e) 
that financial management arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall 
have been established for the Project and become operational; 
 
Section 6.02. The date January 24, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
 
Centro Cívico, Zona 1 
 
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. 
 
Telephone: 
Fax: 
 
(502) 22485002 
(502) 22485005 
(502) 22485003  
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Fax: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Guatemala City, Guatemala, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By  /s/ María Antonieta de Bonilla 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Neeta G. Sirur 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Works:  
 
(a) 
Under Parts A.1 
14,620,000 
75% 
 
A.3, A.4 and A.5 
 
of the Project 
 
(b) 
Under Parts B.1, 
17,350,000 
75% 
 
B.2 and B.3 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods: 
 
(a) 
Under Part C.1 
250,000 
100% of foreign 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures and 80% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(b) 
Under Part C.2 
460,000 
100 % of foreign 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures and 80% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
 
services and training 
 
(including audits): 
 
(a) 
Under Part C.1 
3,750,000 
88%  
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
(b) 
Under Part C.2 
4,540,000 
88% 
 
of the Project  
 
 
 
- 16 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(4) 
Premia for Interest 
- 0 - 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
467,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
5,263,000 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
46,700,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
 
(c) 
the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including reasonable travel costs and per diem of trainees, rental of training facilities and 
equipment, and training materials. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure (under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower) for: 
 
(a) 
contracts for works and goods costing less than $250,000 equivalent; 
 
(b) 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
 
- 17 -
(c) 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and 
 
(d) 
training. 
 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce rural poverty and build social cohesion 
by improving and maintaining access in rural areas to markets, schools, health centers 
and other social and economic infrastructure through the improvement of the Borrower’s 
main, secondary and rural road network. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Rural Roads Network
1. 
Rehabilitation and improvement of:  (a) about 830 kilometers of core 
rural roads network; and (b) selected segments of non core rural roads, both located in the 
Associations’ territories. 
 
2. 
Maintenance of rural roads rehabilitated under RMRP I and roads to be 
rehabilitated under the Project. 
 
3. 
Design and implementation of a system of associative micro-enterprises 
to perform routine maintenance to about 350 kilometers of rural roads rehabilitated under 
RMRP I. 
 
4. 
Rehabilitation and improvement of trails and paths, and the construction 
of footbridges located in the RMRP I’s project area. 
 
5. 
Rehabilitation and improvement of selected road sections located in the 
Associations’ territory using local labor-based construction methods. 
 
Part B: Secondary and Main Roads Network
1. 
Rehabilitation and improvement of about 65 kilometers of the San 
Sebastian Huehuetenango – La Mesilla section of the Central American Highway 1. 
2. 
Upgrading of about 32 kilometers of unpaved secondary and 
departmental roads in the Associations’ territories. 
 
3. 
Rehabilitation and improvement of about 175 kilometers of unpaved 
departmental roads located in the Associations’ territories. 
 
4. 
Maintenance of rehabilitated and/or paved departmental roads under the 
Project. 
- 19 -
Part C: Institutional Strengthening for Decentralized Rural Road Administration
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, training (including audits) and 
equipment (as necessary) to strengthen INFOM’s capacity to perform its duties, 
responsibilities and obligations under the Project, including provision of technical 
assistance, training and equipment (as necessary) to the Associations (including their 
municipalities and their technical units) in order to assist them with the implementation 
of Part A of the Project. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training (including audits) to 
strengthen DGC’s capacity to perform its duties, responsibilities and obligations under 
the Project, including the design and supervision of the works carried out under Part B of 
the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each August 15 and February 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2008 
 
through August 15, 2019 
 
 
4.17% 
 
On February 15, 2020  
 
 
 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
- 21 -
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B.:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Prequalification
Bidders for works estimated to cost more than $10,000,000 shall be prequalified 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C.:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$1,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,350,000 
- 23 -
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Community Participation
Works required for Parts A1, A4 and A5 of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
acceptable to the Bank (including direct contracting and shopping in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines) all as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more but less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from five (5) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
- 24 -
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B and Part C.1 above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first 2 contracts to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Parts C.4 above; and (ii) the first contract to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in each of Parts C.2 and C.3 above,  the 
following procedures shall apply:  
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of the supplier or contractor, for the 
execution of such contract, the Borrower (through DGC) shall, 
and shall cause INFOM to, provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received. 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower (through 
DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to, provide to the Bank a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
- 25 -
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Quality-based Selection
Services rendered by consulting firms under Parts C of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services rendered by consulting firms under Part C of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms under Part C of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services rendered by consulting firms under Part C of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Individual Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants: (a) under Part C of the Project for 
tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (b) under Part C of the 
Project may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the 
Bank. 
- 26 -
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Section III.
Special Provisions
Without limitation upon any of the provisions of this Schedule the Borrower 
(through DGC) shall, and shall cause INFOM to: 
 
1. 
in a period not longer than forty (45) calendar days, after a proposal for 
the procurement of goods, works and services under the Project is submitted, evaluate 
said proposal; and  
 
- 27 -
2. 
in a period not longer than seventy five (75) calendar days, after the 
Bank has issued the respective non objection to the above referenced proposal (contracts 
subject to prior review as provided in this Schedule), sign the respective contract. 
- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means, for Special Account A, Categories 
(1) (a), (2) (a) and (3) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement in respect of Part A and C.1 of the Project and, for Special Account B, 
Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b) set forth in said table in respect of Part B and C.2 of 
the Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,600,000 in 
respect of Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $1,900,000 in respect of 
Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
- 29 -
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for said eligible Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to said eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
- 30 -
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
