CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7211-CH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Protection Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 10, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7211-CH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 10, 2004, between the REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is implementing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of its social protection system (the 
Program) and intends to contract from the Bank a loan in an amount of two hundred 
million Dollars (the Social Protection Loan) in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the Project, upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement; and 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Chile Solidario” means the social protection system referred to in 
Decree No. 144; 
- 2 -
(b) 
“Decree No. 144” means the Borrower’s Presidential Decree on social 
protection published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on August 19, 2002; 
 
(c) 
“DIPRES” means the Borrower’s Budget Directorate within its Ministry 
of Finance; 
 
(d) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences 
January 1; 
 
(e) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“IPDP” means the plan set forth in a letter from MIDEPLAN and 
DIPRES to the Bank dated October 30, 2003 setting forth measures and strategies to 
ensure the ethnic and cultural appropriateness of Chile Solidario;
(g) 
“MIDEPLAN” means the Borrower’s  Ministry of Planning and 
Cooperation; 
 
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(j) 
“PIU” means the Project implementation unit referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Technical Unit” means any unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Training Coordination Agency” means the Borrower’s social 
investment fund established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 18989 published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 19, 1990 or any other agency, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for purposes of coordinating the training to be carried out under Part B.2 of the 
Project; and 
- 3 -
(n) 
“Training Coordination Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ten million seven 
hundred ten thousand Dollars ($10,710,000), as such amount may be converted from time 
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in its Central Bank, or a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including in the 
event it is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan account and pay 
to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
- 4 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
- 5 -
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MIDEPLAN, with the 
assistance of the Training Coordination Agency in respect of Part B.2 of the Project, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, 
administrative, financial, environmental and social practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, during the implementation of the Project maintain in 
MIDEPLAN:  
(i) 
a Project implementation unit (PIU) with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii) 
technical units for implementation of the Project, with 
composition and functions satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth 
in the Operational Manual. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, through MIDEPLAN, enter into an agreement with 
the Training Coordination Agency, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
to set forth their respective responsibilities in the implementation and coordination of Part 
B.2 of the Project. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Training Coordination Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, 
waive, terminate or fail to enforce the Training Coordination Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall, through MIDEPLAN, carry out the Project in 
accordance with an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia, the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
(including the procurement, financial and disbursement requirements thereof and the 
- 6 -
performance indicators).  In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this  Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
through MIDEPLAN  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and 
yearly thereafter during the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the 
results of the evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
(c) 
(i)  
review with the Bank, within no more than two months after each 
such report’s preparation, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section; and 
(ii) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank's views on the matter. 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall carry out the IPDP in accordance with its 
terms. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in MIDEPLAN a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
- 7 -
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall through 
MIDEPLAN: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall through 
MIDEPLAN prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
- 8 -
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that MIDEPLAN has adopted the Operational Manual. 
Section 5.02. The date August 9, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
- 9 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Teatinos 120 
 
Santiago, Chile 
 
Facsimile:   (56-2) 698-8903 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
By /s/ Juan Gabriel Valdez 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel Van Trotsenburg 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: 
/s/ Juan Gabriel Valdez 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Controller General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: 
/s/ Juan Gabriel Valdez 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
(Expressed in 
% of Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
196,000 
80% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) Goods (including computers, 
1,042,000 
100% of foreign 
 
office equipment and supplies) 
 
expenditures, 100% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
80% of  local 
 
expenditures for other   
items procured locally  
 
(3) Consultants’ and other services 
6,910,000 
95% 
 
(4) Training 
) 
100% 
 
(a) for Part B.1 of the 
1,132,400) 
 
Project 
) 
 
)
(b) for Part B.2 of the Project 
573,600) 
 
(5) Incremental Operational 
180,000 
70% of expenditures 
 
Costs 
 
made until twelve 
 
months after the 
 
Effective Date and not 
 
exceeding in the 
 
aggregate $100,000; 
 
and 30% thereafter 
 
(6) Unallocated 
568,100 
 
 
- 12 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
(Expressed in 
% of Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(7) Front-End Fee 
107,100 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(8) Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
________
TOTAL 
10,710,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “incremental operational costs” means the reasonable non-
consultants’ costs incurred: (i) by the PIU for maintenance and consumable office 
supplies, materials, rental of facilities, and incidental costs associated with Project 
implementation; (ii) by PIU members for travel to participate in training events; and (iii) 
for the functioning of the Technical Units (including travel by their staff), none of which 
would have been incurred absent the Project; and 
(d) 
the term “training” means the non-consultants’ reasonable costs of: (i) 
travel, room, board and per diem incurred by trainees in connection with their training; 
and (ii) the course fees charged by academic or other institutions. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, may be made 
- 13 -
on account of payments made for expenditures twelve months before that date but after 
July 1, 2003; and 
 
(b) 
payments for expenditures for Part B.2 of the Project covered by 
Subcategory (4) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the 
Training Coordination  Agreement has been entered into by the parties thereto. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower: 
 
(a) 
for goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent per contract; 
 
(b) 
for services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent per contract; 
 
(c) 
for services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and  
 
(d) 
for works, incremental operational costs and training. 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s efforts to implement 
Chile Solidario and lay the base for a national system of social protection. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Information System for Social Protection
Design and implementation of an information system for social protection, 
including the carrying out of a public information campaign on the system and the 
acquisition of the hardware and software and related services required therefor. 
Part B: Training
Provision of training: 
1. 
to strengthen the Borrower’s ministerial and sectoral capacities at the center and 
regional levels to develop, implement and monitor a system of social protection; and 
2. 
to strengthen the capacity of the social workers of Chile Solidario in their 
interaction with Chile Solidario beneficiaries. 
Part C: System of Analysis, Evaluation and Monitoring of Social Programs and Policies
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to quantify the impact of Chile Solidario 
through: 
1. 
the design of an integrated system of monitoring of management processes and 
partial results of Chile Solidario;
2. 
the evaluation of the effectiveness of selected programs of Chile Solidario in 
addressing the needs of the beneficiaries of Chile Solidario;
- 15 -
3. 
the evaluation of the impact of Chile Solidario on the families in extreme poverty 
including, among others, indigenous peoples, and carrying out of household surveys 
required for such evaluation; and 
4. 
the design and implementation of consultations with community organizations in 
selected areas to assess the implementation of Chile Solidario.
Part D: Institutional Strengthening of MIDEPLAN
1. 
Establishment and operation of the Technical Units, and minor remodeling, 
refurnishing and equipping of offices required for the operation of such units. 
2. 
Carrying out of an analysis of current strengths and weaknesses of the Social 
Division of MIDEPLAN, and formulation of a proposal for the restructuring of such 
Social Division so as to support more efficiently the coordination and installation of 
Chile Solidario and of the Borrower’s social protection system. 
3. 
Carrying out of studies on subjects related to the implementation of Chile 
Solidario, including, inter alia, the review of the status of the basic needs and human 
development index of indigenous peoples, and their demands for public services. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2007. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2010 
 
through December 15, 2011 
25% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 17 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
- 19 -
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, 
using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or 
the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part C.1: 
(i) 
All documents pertaining to a bid shall be submitted at the same 
time.  Bidders shall not be required to submit bid securities or 
other documents in advance and separately from their bids. 
(ii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid 
has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the 
bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. 
(iii) 
Contracts shall not be evaluated imposing restrictions related to 
the budget available for the procurement of the goods in 
question. 
(iv) 
Foreign contractors or suppliers shall not be required to have a 
representative in Chile as a condition for bidding. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
- 20 -
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: 
(i) 
each contract procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in B.1 above; and 
(ii) 
the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in C.1 above, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and works procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in C.2 and C.3 above, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
- 21 -
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
(a) 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
(b) 
In the procurement of consultants’ services, without any limitation to 
other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following 
shall apply: 
(i) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to have a representative 
in Chile as a condition of participation in the selection process; 
(ii) 
the Borrower shall publicly advertise requests of expressions of 
interest as the basis for developing short lists of firms; 
(iii) 
consulting firms shall be selected on the basis of short-lists and 
not subject to an open competition selection process; and 
(iv) 
the evaluation process and the related documents shall be kept 
confidential until the contract is awarded. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
- 22 -
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Least-cost Selection
Services for simple assignments estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 2. 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and not exceeding $2,500,000 equivalent in 
the aggregate shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in B.1 above and estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
- 23 -
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
- 25 -
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
- 26 -
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
