CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4744-IND 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 23, 2004 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4744-IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the following modification (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: the text in Section 5.01 which reads “(a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is 
deleted in its entirety. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“AWP” means annual work program. 
(b) 
“BAPPENAS” means the Borrower’s National Development Planning 
Agency and any successor thereto. 
2
(c) 
“DGRI” means the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in the 
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure and any successor thereto.   
(d) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
Part A of the Project has experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; and “Displaced 
Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
(e) 
“DPUK” means the public works agency reporting to the Head of the 
Kabupaten in each Project Kabupaten for works planning and implementation.  
(f) 
“DPUP” means the provincial public works agency reporting to the 
Governor in each Project Province for managing road and bridge works in each Project 
Province.  
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(i) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Plan, dated May 2004, 
setting forth the measures to be taken during the implementation of Part A of the Project 
to eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts of said implementation or to reduce 
such impacts to acceptable levels, and setting forth the actions needed to implement such 
measures, as such plan may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(k) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31. 
(l) 
“Framework for Treatment of Isolated Vulnerable People” means the 
framework, dated May 2004, for: (i) the informed involvement of Isolated Vulnerable 
People,  through a process of informed participation, in the design and implementation of 
Part A of the Project to be, or being, carried out in a location in which such people reside 
or use for their livelihood; and (ii) designing and implementing mitigation measures on 
3
possible impacts of the Project on Isolated Vulnerable People which are socially and 
culturally acceptable to them.  
(m) 
“Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that 
have a social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant society, that are susceptible 
to being disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any part 
thereof. 
(n) 
“Isolated Vulnerable People Development Plan” means a development 
plan prepared by a Project Province and a Project Kabupaten pursuant to the provisions 
of the Framework for the Treatment of Isolated Vulnerable People, and pursuant to the 
recommendations of the social impact assessment carried out in accordance with such 
framework, and acceptable to the Bank, to mitigate any social or cultural impact of the 
Project on Isolated Vulnerable People.  
(o) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” means a resettlement 
and rehabilitation action plan for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and 
resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, prepared and implemented by a Project 
Province or a Project Kabupaten pursuant to the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework and paragraph 5(e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such plan may 
be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
(p) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the 
Policy Framework, dated May 2004, for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and 
resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, as such framework may be amended from 
time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
(q) 
“MSRI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlement and Regional 
Infrastructure and any successor thereto. 
(r) 
“P3JJ” means Proyek Perencanaan dan Pengawasan Jalan dan Jembatan, 
an administrative unit of DGRI in each Project Province for design and supervision of 
national road works.   
(s) 
“PPJJP” means Proyek Pembangunan Jalan dan Jembatan Perkotaan, an 
administrative unit of the Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development of MSRI 
in each Project Province for design, implementation, and supervision of national urban 
road works. 
(t) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
8, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation. 
 
(u) 
“Project Kabupaten” means a regional autonomous district within a 
province of the Borrower, participating in the Project, and the term “Project Kabupatens,” 
means, collectivity, more than one Project Kabupaten. 
 
(v) 
“Project Management Manual” means the manual to assist the Central, 
Provincial and Kabupaten’s Project staff (including stakeholders) in the implementation 
of the Project and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such 
Project Management Manual may be amended from time to time in agreement with the 
Bank. 
(w) 
“Project Management Unit” means the unit established in the Directorate 
of Technical Affairs of the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in MSRI for 
the purposes set forth in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(x) 
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s provinces of West 
Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan, South Kalimantan, NTB, NTT, South East Sulawesi, 
South Sulawesi, Central Sulawei, Maluku, North Maluku, Papua and West Irian Jaya, and 
any province or provinces that may be established in the future within the geographical 
boundaries of the provinces referred to above. 
(y) 
“Road Fund” means the fund established or to be established in a 
Borrower’s province by respective provincial government for purposes of funding road 
maintenance in accordance with paragraph 12 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(z) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
(aa) 
“Steering Committee” means the inter-agency committee established by 
the Borrower for the purposes set forth in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
5
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
million Dollars ($200,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
6
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower  of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
7
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, financial, and road safety 
practices and sound environmental and social standards, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later 
than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
8
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
9
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each fiscal 
year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 16 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall make publicly available, and agrees that the 
Bank may also make publicly available, each final audit report referred to in Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, promptly after its issuance by the independent auditors referred to 
therein. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that: (i) the AWP for Fiscal Year 2005, including 
engineering design and bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, has been finalized; 
and (ii) the Project Management Manual has been duly adopted by the Borrower, each 
Project Province, and each Project Kabupaten, pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement. 
10 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Environmental Management Plan,   
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Framework for 
Treatment of Isolated Vulnerable People have each been adopted by the Borrower and 
are each legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with the laws of the Republic 
of Indonesia. 
 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Budget 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
11 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By 
/s/ Achmad Rochjadi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Bert Hofman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
12 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil works  
 
 
(a) 
under Part A.1 
23,260,000 
70% 
 
of the Project 
 
(b) 
under Part A.2 
53,470,000 
30% for 
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
 
 
Project 
 
Provinces with above 
average financial 
capacity; and  
60% for Project 
Provinces with average 
financial capacity; and 
90% for Project 
Provinces with below 
average financial 
capacity  
 
 
(c) 
under Part A.3 
52,440,000 
30% for Project 
Kabupatens with above 
average  financial 
capacity; and 
60% for Project 
Kabupatens with 
average financial 
capacity; and 90% for  
Project Kabupatens 
with below average 
financial capacity 
13 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(2) 
Goods 
6,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Incremental operating 
1,600,000 
80% 
 
costs 
(4) 
Consultants’ services 
34,470, 000 
100% 
 
and training 
 
(5) 
Fee 
2,000,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Unallocated 
26,760,000
TOTAL 
200,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures 
incurred by the Directorate of Technical Affairs in DGRI and the Project Management 
Unit, Provincial Project Management Offices and Inspectorate General of MSRI  for staff 
travel, per diem, communications, consumables, web page establishment and 
14 
maintenance, advertisement of bidding, printing and publication of Project information, 
and rental of meeting facilities, but excluding staff salaries, which expenditures would 
not have been incurred absent the Project; and 
 
(d) 
the terms “Project Provinces/Project Kabupatens with above average 
financial capability;” “Project Provinces/Project Kabupatens with average financial 
capability”, and “Project Provinces/Project Kabupatens with below average financial 
capability” mean Provinces or Kabupatens so classified by the Borrower pursuant to the 
provisions of the Borrower’s Decree MOF-No. 35/KMK.072/2003.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Bank Indonesia (its Central Bank) or in a state commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state 
commercial bank,  appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
(b) 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so 
requested; and (ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
15 
referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower  
of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
16 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
17 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) improve conditions 
of the strategic road network in order to reduce transport costs and enhance regional 
accessibility; (ii) support decentralization of planning and managing responsibilities for 
civil works to Provincial and Kabupaten governments; and (iii) increase the efficiency, 
quality and transparency of civil works procurement and implementation. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Preservation or Improvement of Roads and Transport Facilities
1. 
Carrying out of a program of rehabilitation of about 185 kilometers (km) and  
betterment of about 140 km of national roads; and replacement of about 700 meters of  
bridges on the Borrower’s national roads. 
2. 
Carrying out of a program of rehabilitation of about 370 km and betterment of 
about 440 km of provincial roads and replacement of about 1150 meters of provincial 
bridges in the Project Provinces. 
3. 
Carrying out of a program of rehabilitation of about 1050 km and betterment of 
about 1,170 km of Kabupaten roads and replacement of about 25 bridges each longer 
than 15 meters totaling about 500 meters in the Project Kabupatens. 
 
4. 
Carrying out of a program of improvement of non-road transport facilities in the 
Project Provinces and in the Project Kabupatens.   
Part B: Project Implementation Support
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Management Unit and DGRI in 
managing the Project, including provision of technical assistance and office and 
communications equipment therefor.   
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of P3JJ, PPJJP, DPUK, and DPUP in each Project 
Province and Project Kabupaten in the carrying out  design, supervision, and 
management of implementation of civil works under Part A of the Project.   
18 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Directorate General of Regional Development  
within the Ministry of Home Affairs to develop procedures on how regional governments  
introduce performance-based budgeting for infrastructure development, promote  
community awareness of the Project, and regional-based community participation in the 
Project. 
4. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Project staff in DGRI, the Project Provinces, 
and the Project Kabupatens in carrying out the financial management and procurement 
activities related to the Project through provision of training and workshops. 
Part C: Road Sector Support
1. 
Improving the management of the environmental and social impacts of road 
development in environmentally sensitive areas and in communities of Isolated 
Vulnerable People, including preparing standard screening, management and monitoring 
procedures for road development in such areas and communities and carrying out pilot 
studies to demonstrate the application of said procedures.  
2. 
Improving the road planning, programming and budgeting procedures under 
decentralized operation at the Borrower’s provincial and Kabupaten levels, including, 
preparing and implementing a training program for application of said improved 
procedures.  
3. 
Providing legal, institutional, economic and engineering support for the 
establishment and initial operation of commercially managed Road Fund for road 
maintenance in selected provinces. 
4. 
Improving the traffic and road asset monitoring system through developing 
appropriate survey methods and procedures and collection of traffic and road assets data 
for provincial and Kabupaten roads in the Eastern Indonesia Region. 
5. 
Developing Kalimantan road network, including: identifying road network 
development needs and priorities to support medium- to long term regional growth and 
development; preparing environmentally sustainable road network devolvement plans for 
the next 15 years;  preparing terms of reference for feasibility studies needed for carrying 
out of those plans; and examining the institutional arrangements for planning and 
implementing the road network development.  
6. 
Fostering the Borrower’s decentralization program by strengthening the capacity 
of the road sector at national, provincial, and Kabupaten levels in the Eastern Indonesia 
Region, including: institutionalizing the training needs analysis function in local 
governments; developing competency-based training modules; and providing training at 
19 
master degree level to about 75 road sector officials in the following disciplines: highway 
engineering, structure/bridge engineering, construction management, road and bridge 
maintenance, and environmental studies.      
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
20 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Dollars)*
November 15, 2009 
May 15, 2010 
November 15, 2010 
May 15, 2011 
November 15, 2011 
May 15, 2012 
November 15, 2012 
May 15, 2013 
November 15, 2013 
May 15, 2014 
November 15, 2014 
May 15, 2015 
November 15, 2015 
May 15, 2016 
November 15, 2016 
May 15, 2017 
November 15, 2017 
May 15, 2018 
November 15, 2018 
May 15, 2019 
November 15, 2019 
May 15, 2020 
November 15, 2020 
May 15, 2021 
November 15, 2021 
May 15, 2022 
November 15, 2022 
May 15, 2023 
November 15, 2023 
May 15, 2024 
5,905,000 
5,950,000 
6,000,000 
6,050,000 
6,100,000 
6,150,000 
6,200,000 
6,250,000 
6,305,000 
6,355,000 
6,410,000 
6,460,000 
6,515,000 
6,570,000 
6,625,000 
6,675,000 
6,730,000 
6,790,000 
6,845,000 
6,900,000 
6,955,000 
7,015,000 
7,070,000 
7,130,000 
7,190,000 
7,250,000 
7,310,000 
7,370,000 
7,430,000 
7,495,000 
* The figures in this column represent the amount in United States Dollars to be  repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions. 
21 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II. Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and the following additional procedures: 
1. 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
2. 
Domestic Preference.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
22 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive 
bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Annex B to this Schedule. 
Section III. Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines.   
B. 
Other Procedures
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.   
Section IV: Review by the Bank of the Procurement Decisions
A. 
Prior Review.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Borrower, the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more; and the first contract for works to be procured in accordance with the provisions in  
paragraph B. 1 of Section II of this Schedule 4 in each Project Province and each Project 
Kabupaten.   
23 
2. 
Consultants’ Services 
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.   
 
(b) 
 The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:  (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval;  (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall 
have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
B. 
Post Review.
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
24 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Without limitation on the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement  
(Schedule 4) and of the Procurement Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines (as such 
terms are defined in said schedule and referred to hereafter as the Procurement 
Guidelines), the following provisions shall apply in respect of goods, works and 
consultants’ services to be procured under the Project: 
1. 
To ensure end-user participation in procurement process under this Project, 
attendance of non-governmental observers is required.  The end-users may include 
members from civil society, affected communities and university staff members where 
appropriate.  One option to achieve this end would be to have each affected community 
through their FAD (inter-village representative body) elect a representative for this 
purpose.  Clear criteria for the selection of procurement committee members and 
observers at all levels for reasonable expenses will be established with the agreement of 
the Bank and detailed in the Project Management Manual.  
2. 
The Procurement Plans, including all updates thereof, shall be made publicly 
available promptly after their finalization. 
3. 
All bidding documents and requests for proposals issued in accordance with 
Schedule 4 shall be made available to any member of the public promptly upon request, 
subject only to payment of a reasonable fee to cover the cost of printing and delivery.  In 
the case of requests for proposals, the relevant documents will only be made available 
after notification of award to the successful firm.  Each such document will continue to 
be made publicly available until a year after completion of the contract entered into for 
the goods, works or consultants’ services in question. 
4. 
All short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-qualification, lists of pre-
qualified contractors and suppliers shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request. 
5. 
A summary of the evaluation of all bids and proposals for specific contracts shall 
be disclosed to all bidders and parties submitting proposals therefor, promptly after the 
notification of award to the successful bidder/consultant.  Information in such summaries 
will be limited to a list of bidders/consultants, all bid prices and financial proposals as 
read out at public openings for bids and financial proposals, all bids and proposals 
declared non responsive (together with reasons for such an assessment), the name of 
winning bidder/consultant and the contract price.  Such summaries will be made available 
to any member of the public promptly upon request. 
25 
6. 
Contract award information for all contracts for goods and works above $100,000 
equivalent or more and all contracts for consultants above $50,000 equivalent or more 
shall be made publicly available and published widely, and be made available to any 
member of the public upon request, promptly after such award. 
7. 
A list of all contracts awarded in the three months preceding the date of such 
request, including, with respect to each such contract, the name of the 
contractor/consultant selected, the contract amount, the number of bidders/makers of 
proposals in respect thereof, the procurement method followed and the purpose of such 
contract shall be made available, promptly upon request by any member of the public. 
8. 
Representatives of the end-users of goods or works being procured shall be 
permitted to attend public bid openings in respect thereof. 
 
26 
Annex B  
to 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
1. 
General
Subject to the provisions of paragraph B(1) of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, the procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding shall be those 
set forth in Presidential Decree No.80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the 
clarifications and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for 
compliance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the “Procurement Guidelines”). 
 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a condition 
for participation in the bidding process.  
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders (i) shall 
be allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process, and (ii) shall not be 
denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully 
perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
 
3. 
Pre-qualification
Pre-qualification shall not used for simple goods and works. Normally, post-
qualification shall be used. Pre-qualification shall be required only for large or complex 
works with the prior “no objection” of the Bank. When pre-qualification shall be 
required: 
 
(a) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-
qualification, and  
 
(b) 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
 
4. 
Joint Ventures
27 
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to 
form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a 
condition of award of the contract. 
 
28 
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and 
local regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement procedures 
under the Loan Agreement. 
 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 
24 hours prior to the deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit 
responsible for procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated 
value of the contract. 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration 
process is required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity for registering. 
 
7. 
Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a  bank guarantee from 
a reputable bank. 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and if bids are invited in two envelopes, both envelopes (technical 
and price) shall be opened at the same time. 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidder. 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
29 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the 
owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three, re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
30 
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project:  
 
(a) 
the Steering Committee chaired by BAPPENAS’ Deputy for  
Infrastructure and including representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of 
Home Affairs, the State Ministry for Development of Eastern Indonesia, the Ministry of 
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure and the Ministry of Communications, and 
responsible for the facilitation of coordination among the Borrower’s Ministries and 
among the local governments of the Project Provinces and Project Kabupatens for 
purposes of Project implementation;   
(b) 
the Project Management Unit, responsible for day-to-day management 
and implementation of the Project, chaired by the Director of Technical Affairs of the 
Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure, said Unit to be provided at all times with 
adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in 
adequate numbers, as shall be necessary to accomplish its functions, responsibilities and 
objectives; and     
(c) 
the Provincial Project Management Offices, responsible for day-to-day 
management and implementation of the Project at Provincial and district level, each 
headed by a qualified and experienced officer, each said Unit to be provided at all times 
with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and experienced 
personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its functions, 
responsibilities and objectives.    
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project Province and Project Kabupaten 
to: 
(a) 
adopt the Project Management Manual, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the description of: (i) the Project 
implementation arrangements and organizational structure; (ii) financial management, 
reporting and auditing procedures set forth in Article IV of this Agreement; (iii) 
environmental and social safeguards requirements and measures for the Project; (iv) 
procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and standard 
procurement documentation; (v) monitoring and reporting of the Project’s progress; and 
(vi) the Anti-Corruption Action Plan; 
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Management 
Manual; and 
31 
(c) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said Project 
Management Manual without the prior concurrence of the Bank.  
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no Project Provinces and Project Kabupatens  
shall be eligible for participation in the Project, unless (i) they have adopted the Anti-
corruption Action Plan, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) they have  
committed to undertaking annual routine maintenance of their roads financed under the 
Project, and at least additional 30% of provincial road networks in the Project Provinces, 
and at least additional 30% of priority network roads in the Project Kabupatens, and have 
allocated budgets for these purposes for up to five years after completion of the Project; 
and (iii) they have committed to applying the Technical Guidelines for Planning and 
Programming of Kabupaten roads under SK77/KPTS/Db/1990, and provincial roads 
under the Integrated Indonesian Road Management System for the preparation of their 
AWP-2 and AWP-3.   
4. 
The Borrower shall, through the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure 
of MSRI and through the local governments of the Project Provinces and Project 
Kabupatens, take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that: 
(a) 
not later than June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 2005, and until 
the completion of the Project, a draft AWP for all components of the Project to be 
implemented during the following Fiscal Year is prepared and furnished to the Bank for 
its review and comments, including: (i) the scope of the program; (ii) the results of the 
environmental and social impact screening of the proposed works; (iii) cost estimates; 
(iv) time-based implementation schedules; (v) financing plan; (vi) budget arrangements; 
and (vii) procurement plan. 
(b) 
not later than November 30 in each year, commencing November 30, 
2005, finalize the above mentioned AWP for implementation, taking into account the 
comments of the Bank thereon, including detailed engineering design and bidding 
documents, the Environmental Management Plans, social impact assessments, the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plans, the Isolated Vulnerable People Development  
Plans, as required, by the Environmental Management Plan, the Framework for 
Treatment of Isolated Vulnerable People, and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework.   
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that in carrying out the works and activities under Part 
A of the Project:  
 
(a) 
the proposed works and activities have been included in the relevant 
AWP referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule; 
32 
 
(b) 
the proposed works and activities have a projected minimum economic 
rate of return of fifteen percent as calculated in a manner acceptable to the Bank, or such 
lower economic rate of return as the Bank may agree in exceptional circumstances; 
 
(c) 
necessary counterpart funding to fully finance the proposed works and 
activities is available and in amounts acceptable to the Bank; 
(d) 
appropriate engineering, social and environmental standards and 
practices that would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement 
of Displaced Persons have been considered in the design of the proposed works and 
activities; 
(e) 
for proposed works and activities involving the involuntary resettlement 
of Displaced Persons: (i) a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan has been 
prepared in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework 
and in consultation with said Displaced Persons; (ii) such Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Action Plan has been approved by the Bank; and (iii) every Displaced  
Person has been compensated and/or has been provided with a resettlement site and 
moving allowance prior to the taking of the land and related assets, and such 
compensation and provision of resettlement site and moving allowance has been 
substantially completed prior to the signing of the contract for the carrying out of such 
works or activities, in accordance with the provisions of said Plan; 
(f) 
for proposed works and activities involving Isolated Vulnerable People: 
(i) a social impact assessment pursuant to the Framework for the Treatment of Isolated 
Vulnerable People has been prepared, including an Isolated Vulnerable People 
Development Plan as required; (ii) such assessment and Plan have been approved by the 
Bank; and (iii) the most critical aspects of the Plan have been implemented prior to the 
signing of the contract for the carrying out of such works or activities; and 
(g) 
for proposed works and activities, the environmental impact assessment 
requirements have been completed pursuant to the provisions of the Environmental 
Management Plan, including the provisions relating to cultural property, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
6. 
The Borrower shall, carry out a technical audit of selected road sections where 
quality of construction is below the specifications and technical standards included in the 
bidding documents, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.    
Should the technical audits identify any major problems or any significant delay in 
execution of the civil works contracts under the Project, the Borrower shall, through the 
Project Management Unit, prepare and submit to the Bank for review a time-bound action 
plan for remedy of the identified problems. 
33 
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the local government in each Project Kabupaten 
carry out an independent financial audits for its work programs therein every six months, 
in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank, beginning with June 30, 2005.  
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project staff at provincial and Kabupaten 
levels be trained annually on the Bank’s financial management and procurement 
procedures pursuant to the schedules set forth in the Procurement and Financial 
Management Action Plan acceptable to the Bank; and be trained annually on the 
application of the Project Management Manual, with the first year training carried out by 
November 30, 2004.  
9. 
In carrying out Part B(3) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
December 31, 2007, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a draft report on 
carrying out of the activities in said Part of the Project, and thereafter finalize the report 
taking into account the comments of the Bank thereon and carry out the 
recommendations the Bank may have on such a report.  
10. 
In carrying out Part C(1) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than June 
30, 2007, submit to the Bank for review and comments, a report on improving 
management of environmental and social impacts of road projects in sensitive areas, and 
thereafter finalize such report taking into account the comments of the Bank thereon. 
11. 
In carrying out Part C(2) of the Project, the Borrower, shall, not later than June 
30, 2008, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a report on the 
implementation of the activities in said Part of the Project, and thereafter finalize the 
report and carry out the recommendations the Bank may have on the report in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
12. 
In carrying out Part C(3) of the Project, the Borrower, shall, no later than June 
30, 2008, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a report on the 
implementation of the Road Fund, and thereafter prepare and carry out an action plan for 
further expansion and continuation of the Road Fund activities taking into account the 
comments of the Bank on the report, if any.         
13. 
In carrying out Part C(4) of the Project, the Borrower shall complete the traffic 
and road asset monitoring system acceptable to the Bank, by June 30, 2008. 
14. 
In carrying out Part C(5) of the Project, the Borrower, shall, not later than 
December 31, 2007, submit to the Bank for review and comments, a report on carrying 
out of the activities in said Part of the Project, thereafter finalize the report taking into 
account of the Bank’s comments thereon. 
34 
15. 
In carrying out Part C(6) of the Project, the Borrower, shall, not later than 
September, 30, 2007, submit to the Bank for review and comments, a report on the 
outcomes of the training activities in said Part of the Project, thereafter finalize such 
report taking into account the comments of the Bank thereon.  
16. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 2006, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the preceding calendar year and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by September 30 in each year, commencing 
September 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the corresponding report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
35 
Schedule 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Attainment of Project 
Objectives 
Monitoring Indicators 
2004 
Baseline 
2005 
2006 
2007  
2008  
2009 
2011 
1a.  Percentage reduction 
in vehicle operating costs 
on national and provincial 
roads included in the 
Project 
—
1% 
6% 
10% 
11% 
11% 
11% 
1.  Improve condition 
of the strategic  road 
network in order to 
reduce transport costs 
and enhance regional  
accessibility  
1b.  Percentage reduction 
in vehicle operating costs 
on kabupaten roads 
included in the Project   
—
3% 
11% 
19% 
25% 
25% 
25% 
1c.  Percentage travel time 
improvements on selected 
project roads 
—
2% 
9% 
16% 
20% 
20% 
20% 
2a.  Number of provinces 
using economic-based 
priority-setting procedures, 
with staff who understand 
and can apply them 
0
3
5
8
11 
11 
11 
2.  Support 
decentralization of 
planning and 
management 
responsibilities for 
works on provincial 
and kabupaten roads 
to the respective 
provincial and 
kabupaten 
governments 
2b.  Percentage of project 
kabupaten with adequate 
funding for routine 
maintenance of JJP 
network (based on budget 
allocations)   
—
70% 
75% 
80% 
85% 
85% 
85% 
2c.  Percent of works 
packages reported by the 
RDSCs in environmental 
monitoring reports to the 
Bapedalda 
—
45% 
60% 
90% 
100% 
— 
— 
3a.  Percentage of bid 
openings attended by one 
or more representatives of 
Civil Society 
—
40% 
50% 
60% 
— 
— 
— 
3.  Increase the 
efficiency, quality 
and transparency of 
works procurement 
and implementation 
3b.  Compliance with 
tender schedule defined at 
time of bidding 
—
70% 
80% 
90% 
— 
— 
— 
3c.  Number of technical 
audits carried out by 
Inspectorate General  
—
30 
30 
30 
30 
— 
— 
36 
Attainment of Project 
Objectives 
Monitoring Indicators 
2004 
Baseline 
2005 
2006 
2007  
2008  
2009 
2011 
4.  Physical outputs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cumulative percent of project roads receiving 
betterment 
—
12% 
48% 
78% 
100% 
— 
— 
Cumulative percent of project roads receiving 
rehabilitation 
—
10% 
45% 
78% 
100% 
— 
— 
Cumulative percent of project bridges receiving 
rehabilitation or replacement 
—
13% 
52% 
81% 
100% 
— 
— 
Number of agreed technical assistance activities 
completed as planned 
—
0
2
2
3
—
—
