LOAN NUMBER 7209-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
Lima Transport Project 
(North-South Subsystem) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
and 
 
MUNICIPALIDAD METROPOLITANA DE LIMA 
 
Dated June 2, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7209-PE 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, 
dated 
June 
2, 
2004, 
between 
MUNICIPALIDAD 
METROPOLITANA DE LIMA (MML, the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Peru (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
and 
(C) 
the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development 
Bank (the IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $45,000,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement (the IDB 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
- 2 -
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Operational Plan” means any of the annual plans provided by the 
Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE (as hereinafter defined) to the Bank for the 
implementation of the Project, detailing arrangements, work plans, training plans, and 
procedures to be used for the purposes of implementation of the Project; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means an individual who has met the eligibility criteria 
specified in the Project Operational Manual and, as a result, has been extended, or is to be 
extended, a Micro-Credit for activities under Part B.2. of the Project; and “Beneficiaries” 
means each such Beneficiary collectively; 
(c) 
“Caja Metropolitana de Lima”
means the municipal financial 
organization of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to Law No. 10769 dated 
January 20, 1947; 
(d) 
“DMTU” means ‘Dirección Municipal de Transporte Urbano’, the 
Borrower’s municipal directorate for urban transport, established and operating pursuant 
to Municipal Resolution (Edicto) No. 021 dated April 1, 1985; 
(e) 
“EMAPE” means ‘Empresa Municipal Administradora de Peaje de Lima 
S.A.’, the Borrower’s company for the management of tolls, established and operating 
under its articles of incorporation and the Borrower’s Council Agreement No.146, dated 
June 26, 1986; 
(f) 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the plan detailing 
environmental and social management and mitigation guidelines for the Project, referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Environmental and Social 
Management Plan; 
(g) 
“Fiscal and Financial Action Plan” means any of the annual plans 
provided by the Borrower to the Bank and detailing performance compliance with fiscal 
and financial practices of MML; 
(h) 
“FMR” or “Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
- 3 -
(i) 
“FONAM” means ‘Fondo Nacional del Ambiente’ environmental and 
social private and non-for-profit foundation, established and operating pursuant to the 
Guarantor’s Law No. 26793 dated May 2, 1997; 
(j) 
“General Procurement Plan” means the plan referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, outlining procurement arrangements for goods, works and 
services to be procured under the Project; 
(k) 
“Initial Deposit” means the amount to be deposited in the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Institutional Cooperation Arrangements” means any or all of the final 
institutional cooperation arrangements executed between the Borrower, through 
PROTRANSPORTE on one hand and each of FONAM, EMAPE, DMTU, PEMTNM, 
SENATI, the Micro-Credit Institutions and the Guarantor’s Ministry in charge of labor; 
(m) 
“MiBanco” means a private financial institution created and operating 
under the Laws of the Guarantor; 
(n) 
“Micro-Credit” means a micro-credit made or proposed to be made to a 
Beneficiary by an Micro-Credit Institution for activities under Part B.2. of the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Micro-Credit Agreement” means an agreement between an Micro-
Credit Institution and a Beneficiary setting forth the terms and conditions under which a 
Micro-Credit shall be made available to said Beneficiary for the purpose of financing 
activities under Part B.2. of the Project in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Micro-Credit Institution” means any of the institutions (including Caja 
Metropolitana de Lima and MiBanco) allowed to grant Micro-Credits to a Beneficiary 
under Part B.2. of the Project in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, the respective Institutional Cooperation Arrangement to be executed between 
the Borrower and said Micro-Credit Institution in accordance with the Micro-Credit 
Operational Manual; 
(q) 
“Micro-Credit Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement outlining policies, regulations, procurement, 
financial management and implementation procedures as well as monitoring guidelines 
for Part B.2 of the Project; 
- 4 -
(r) 
“PEMTNM” means ‘Proyecto Especial Metropolitano de Transporte 
No-Motorizado’, the Borrower’s special unit for non-motorized transport, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Resolution No. 98 dated January 22, 2003; 
(s) 
“PIU” 
means 
the 
Project 
Implementation 
Unit 
within 
PROTRANSPORTE in charge of the day-to-day management and execution of the 
Project; 
(t) 
“Policy Guidelines for road-based public transport” means the 
Borrower’s guidelines discussing its strategies and policies for road based public 
transport; 
(u) 
“Project Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 
3.04 of this Agreement; 
(v) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, outlining policies and implementation procedures 
including institutional strengthening and social mitigation plans as well as monitoring 
guidelines for the Project and other related documents, except as it relates to the micro-
credit component of the Project that will be specified separately in the Micro-Credit 
Operation Manual. Said manual may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Project Operation Manual; 
(w) 
“PROTRANSPORTE” means ‘Proyecto de Preparación del Plan de 
Inversiones para el Transporte Metropolitano de Lima’, the Borrower’s agency 
responsible for the preparation of investment, implementation, operation and control of 
the high capacity segregated busways in Lima, established and operating pursuant to 
Borrower’s Decree No. 035 dated April 12, 2002; 
(x) 
“ROS” means ‘Reglamento de Operación del Sistema’, the regulation for 
the operation of the high capacity segregated busways system and its components to be 
adopted by the Borrower; 
(y) 
“SENATI” means ‘Servicio Nacional de Adiestramiento Técnico-
Industrial’, the Guarantor’s national vocational training service, established and 
operating pursuant to Guarantor’s Law No. 13771 dated December 19, 1961; 
(z) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
- 5 -
(aa) 
“Staffing Plan” means the staffing plan for the eight (8) key personnel 
within the PIU. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty five million 
Dollars ($45,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods, services and micro-credits required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
- 6 -
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar, in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
- 7 -
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and to this end, shall carry out the Project through PROTRANSPORTE with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, 
social, financial, public utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
through PROTRANSPORTE, carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through PROTRANSPORTE: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, through PROTRANSPORTE: 
 
(a) 
open and maintain in a commercial bank an account (the Project 
Account) in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
- 8 -
(b) 
deposit an initial deposit into the Project Account in an amount 
equivalent to $850,000 (the Initial Deposit), to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the 
costs of the Project; 
 
(c) 
thereafter, deposit into the Project Account at least in January, April, July 
and October of each year, until the completion of the Project, such amounts as shall be 
required to replenish in a timely manner the Project Account in an amount equal to the 
amount of the Initial Deposit; and 
 
(d) 
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, through PROTRANSPORTE, furnish to the 
Bank: (a) no later than twelve months after the Effective Date, and thereafter implement, 
Institutional Cooperation Arrangements executed between the Borrower, through 
PROTRANSPORTE, on one hand and each of DMTU, PEMTNM, SENATI, the Micro-
Credit Institutions and the Guarantor’s Ministry in charge of labor, all in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank; (b) no later than December 31, 2004 and thereafter 
implement, the ROS in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and (c) no later than 
six months after the Effective Date, and thereafter implement the Policy Guidelines for 
road-based public transport in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.06.  The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall appoint the 
auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Schedule 4 to this Agreement no later than three months 
after the Effective Date. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall establish 
and maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards, acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition of PROTRANSPORTE and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall: 
- 9 -
(i) 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Effective Date 
falls, to and including the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account is made, have the financial statements of 
PROTRANSPORTE (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year, or other 
period agreed to by the Bank, audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year or such other  
period agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year, or such other period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in  scope 
and  detail  satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit  of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
PROTRANSPORTE, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year or other period agreed to by the Bank, 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
PROTRANSPORTE, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
- 10 -
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Municipal Ordinance of the Borrower, referred to in Section 6.01 (f) 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the 
opinion of the Bank; affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement. 
(b) 
The Institutional Cooperation Arrangements shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under the Loan Agreement. 
(c) 
The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
- 11 -
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
(d) 
The IDB Loan Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Loan 
Agreement. 
(e) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  
IDB Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the IDB Loan Agreement providing therefor, or 
(B) 
the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section. 
- 12 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit been 
deposited therein; 
(b) 
The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, has adopted a financial 
management system, including the capacity to produce FMRs, satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
the Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, has adopted the Project 
Operational Manual, the Environmental and Social Management Plan and the General 
Procurement Plan; 
(d) 
the Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, has adopted for the first 
year of the Project, the Annual Operational Plan; 
(e) 
the Borrower has adopted for the first year of the Project the Fiscal and 
Financial Action Plan; 
(f) 
the Borrower has promulgated, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, a Municipal Ordinance providing for the intangibility of the transport corridor and 
regulating the use of its protected zone; 
(g) 
the Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, has submitted to the Bank 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for the appointment of auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
the Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, has executed final 
Institutional Cooperation Arrangements, all in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank with EMAPE and FONAM; 
(i) 
the Staffing Plan has been adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank and all necessary staffing arrangements have been made in accordance with said 
Staffing Plan; and 
- 13 -
(j) 
a procurement specialist for EMAPE has been hired, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Institutional Cooperation Arrangement with EMAPE referred to 
in Section 6.01 (h) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and EMAPE, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and EMAPE in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the institutional cooperation arrangement with FONAM referred to 
in Section 6.01 (h) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and FONAM, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FONAM in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03.  The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  The Mayor of MML is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Municipalidad Metropolitana de Lima 
 
c/o PROTRANSPORTE 
Av. Aramburú 166, 4th Floor 
Miraflores 
Lima 18 
 
Facsimile: 
(51-1) 421-8512 
- 14 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
MUNICIPALIDAD METROPOLITANA DE LIMA 
 
By  /s/ Luis Castañeda Lossio 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
% of Expenditures 
to be financed
(1)  Works 
 
(a) under contracts awarded to a 
contractor from a country that 
is a member of both the Bank 
and IDB 
 
(b) under contracts awarded to 
contractor from a country that 
is a member of the Bank but 
not of the IDB 
 
29,710,00 
 
0
41% 
 
82% 
 
(2)  Goods 
 
(a) under contracts awarded to a 
contractor from a country that 
is a member of both the Bank 
and IDB  
 
(b) under contracts awarded to 
contractor from a country that is 
a member of the Bank but not of 
the IDB 
 
3,190,000 
 
0
41% 
 
82% 
 
(3)  Consultant Services and Audits 
 
4,360,000 
82% 
 
(4)  Training 
 
250,000 
 
41% 
 
- 17 -
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
% of Expenditures 
to be financed
(5)  Works, Goods and Services financed by 
Micro-Credits under Part B.2. of the 
Project 
 
720,000 
41% 
 
(6)  Front-end Fee 
450,000 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement 
 
(7)  Unallocated 
6,320,000 
 
(8)  Premium for Interest Rate Caps and 
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
this Agreement 
TOTAL 
45,000,000 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
“Training” means: (i) training materials and rental of training facilities; 
and (ii) reasonable fees, travel, and per diem of trainers and trainees; and 
(b) 
Reallocations between subcategories (a) and (b) under Categories (1) and 
(2) will be done upon request by the Borrower and will only require approval by the Bank 
and notification to the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) through (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, on 
account of payments made for expenditures during the twelve months immediately before 
that date but in any case after September 30, 2003; and 
- 18 -
(b) 
Micro-Credits under Category (5) in the table in paragraph 1 above 
unless (i) the Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, has adopted the Micro-Credit 
Operational Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) an Institutional 
Cooperation Arrangement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank has been duly 
executed between the Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, and the Micro-Credit 
Institution; and (iii) a report of Micro-Credit Agreements approved in accordance with 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in accordance with the Micro-Credit 
Operational Manual has been submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) works costing $500,000 
equivalent or less per contract; (b) goods costing $250,000 equivalent or less per contract; 
(c) consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) training; and (f) 
Micro-Credits, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in enhancing the economic 
productivity and the quality of life in the Borrower’s municipal territory by improving 
mobility and accessibility for its population, especially in the peri-urban poor 
neighborhoods, through the establishment of an efficient, reliable, cleaner and safer mass 
transit system. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Mobility and Environmental Improvements
1. 
Construction of segregated busways of about 29 km; 
2. 
re-pavement of mixed-traffic lanes and pedestrian facilities adjacent to new 
busways and improvement of about 50 km of feeder roads and about 30 km of pedestrian 
and cycling facilities to two bus terminals; 
3. 
implementation of traffic signal and other traffic engineering improvements along 
the busways and in the immediate vicinity of the busways; 
4. 
construction of about 35 bus stops, two bus intermediate terminals, two bus 
terminals, and two bus depots and workshops; 
5. 
construction of a control center to monitor and direct operations on the busways; 
6. 
adoption of traffic safety and personal security measures along the busways, its 
feeder roads and its adjacent roads; 
7. 
improvement of pedestrian and vehicular circulation in sensitive areas along the 
busways and enhancement of public space; 
8. 
relocation of a flower market and assistance to informal street vendors affected by 
the busway improvements; 
9. 
carrying out of environmental mitigation measures; 
- 20 -
10. 
implementation and initial operation of an improved air quality monitoring system; 
11. 
development and initial implementation of a road safety strategy; and 
12. 
technical assistance for the development of more environment-friendly vehicle 
scrapping methods. 
Part B: Social Mitigation and Community Participation
1. 
Carrying out of community consultations, including with urban transit users and 
operators, to enhance awareness and ownership of the new transit system, including road 
safety education; 
2. 
mitigation of negative impacts of the Project on current bus operators; and 
3. 
provision of technical support to operators within the affected routes to strengthen 
their managerial and professional capacities. 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Development and implementation of a municipal public transport policy, including 
its regulatory and policy-setting framework, as well as its administration, operation, 
monitoring and control; 
2. 
provision of technical assistance and equipment to PROTRANSPORTE and 
training for PROTRANSPORTE personnel; 
3. 
provision of technical assistance and equipment to DMTU and training for DMTU 
personnel and police officers in the area of public transport regulations and their 
monitoring, control and enforcement; and 
4. 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
Part D: Studies and Construction Supervision
1. 
Supervision of civil works carried out under Part A of the Project; 
2. 
carrying out of economic feasibility, environmental and related studies as well as 
the preparation of engineering designs to expand further the busway network; and 
- 21 -
3. 
carrying out of social impact assessments of the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Payment Date
Installment Share
May 1, 2009
6.44%
November 1, 2009
6.24%
May 1, 2010
6.02%
November 1, 2010
5.80%
May 1, 2011
5.60%
November 1, 2011
5.38%
May 1, 2012
5.16%
November 1, 2012
4.96%
May 1, 2013
4.73%
November 1, 2013
4.51%
May 1, 2014
4.31%
November 1, 2014
4.09%
May 1, 2015
3.87%
November 1, 2015
3.67%
May 1, 2016
3.44%
November 1, 2016
3.22%
May 1, 2017
3.00%
November 1, 2017
2.80%
May 1, 2018
2.58%
November 1, 2018
2.36%
May 1, 2019
2.16%
November 1, 2019
1.93%
May 1, 2020
1.71%
November 1, 2020
1.51%
May 1, 2021
1.29%
November 1, 2021
1.07%
May 1, 2022
0.87%
November 1, 2022
0.64%
May 1, 2023
0.42%
November 1, 2023
0.22%
- 23 -
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
- 24 -
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods estimated to cost 
$350,000 equivalent per contract or more and works estimated to cost $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract or more shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.  Such goods and works shall be procured using standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Bank and the IDB. 
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or more, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent; and (b) works estimated to cost 
$250,000 equivalent per contract or more, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$18,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
To the extent practicable, contracts for office equipment and supplies shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more each. 
2. 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
- 26 -
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed General Procurement Plan shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such General Procurement Plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for (i) works estimated to cost more than 
$500,000 equivalent; and (ii) goods estimated to cost more than $250,000 equivalent, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for works procured under small 
works procedures and the first two contracts for goods procured under national shopping, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
- 27 -
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: 
the short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and not 
exceeding the aggregate amount of $800,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
- 28 -
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
and not exceeding the aggregate amount of $700,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. 
Individual Consultants
(a) 
Services for individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines up to an aggregate amount of 
$300,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
(b) 
Individual consultants may be selected on a sole-source basis in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the General 
Procurement Plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
- 29 -
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) all contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms selected on a sole-source basis, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and 
experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III.
Special Provisions
A. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all procurement of 
goods and works under Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule: 
1. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents. 
2. 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the 
procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
3. 
The Borrower shall utilize standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants referred to in Section II of this Schedule: 
- 30 -
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
2. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the proposal documents. 
3. 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding 
a contract for consulting services. 
4. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participating in the 
selection process. 
 
- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
General
The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with a Project operational manual, an 
annual operational plan, an environmental and social management plan, a fiscal and 
financial action plan, the Staffing Plan and a Micro-Credit operational manual and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of these 
manuals or of these plans without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any 
conflict between the terms of said manuals and plans and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail; 
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;  
(c) 
maintain until the completion of the execution of the Project, the PIU 
with competent staff in adequate numbers;  
(d) 
cause PROTRANSPORTE to participate until the completion of the 
execution of the Project in quarterly consultation meetings with relevant municipal 
agencies in charge of urban transport, and submit minutes of said consultation meetings 
to the Bank; 
(e) 
enter into and implement until the completion of the execution of the 
Project the Institutional Cooperation Arrangements, each satisfactory to the Bank, and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any substantive 
provision of said Arrangements without the Bank’s prior written approval. These 
Arrangements will not be amended or waived if, in the opinion of the Bank, such 
amendments or waivers may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. In case of any conflict between the 
terms of said Arrangements and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
shall prevail; and 
(f) 
maintain until the completion of the execution of the Project the 
Municipal Ordinance providing for the intangibility of the transport corridor and 
- 32 -
regulating the use of its protected zone and the Policy Guidelines for road-based public 
transport and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any 
provision of said Municipal Ordinance and Policy Guidelines without the Bank’s prior 
written approval. This Municipal Ordinance and Policy Guidelines will not be amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived if, in the opinion of the Bank, such 
amendment, suspension, abrogation, or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2. 
Semi-Annual Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31, and July 31 each year starting on the first such date 
after the Effective Date, a semi-annual progress report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;  
(b) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 and August 31 each year starting 
on the month following the presentation of the first semi-annual progress report, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter;  
 
(c) 
by April 30, 2006, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, carry 
out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the implementation of operations under 
the Project (Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Bank.  
3. 
Annual Operational Plan and Fiscal and Financial Action Plan
(a) 
The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall, until the completion 
of the execution of the Project: (i) furnish to the Bank no later than January 31 each year, 
starting on January 31, 2005, an Annual Operational Plan acceptable to the Bank and 
covering the period remaining for the completion of the execution of the Project; (ii) 
- 33 -
review with the Bank within four weeks following the submission of said plan referred to 
in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph said Annual Operational Plan; and (iii) thereafter 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion and achievement of said 
plan based on its conclusions and recommendations and on the views of the Bank on said 
plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the execution of the Project: 
(i) furnish to the Bank no later than January 31 each year, starting on January 31, 2005, 
Fiscal and Financial Action Plan acceptable to the Bank and covering the period 
remaining for the completion of the execution of the Project; (ii) review with the Bank 
within four weeks following the submission of said plan referred to in subparagraph (i) of 
this paragraph said Fiscal and Financial Action Plan; and (iii) thereafter take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion and achievement of said plan based on its 
conclusions and recommendations and on the views of the Bank on said plan. 
4. 
Annual Procurement Audits and General Procurement Plan
(a) 
The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall: 
(i) 
have all the procurement records and documentation for each 
fiscal year of the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate 
procurement auditing principles, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such fiscal year, the 
procurement audit report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
procurement records and documentation and the procurement 
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall: 
(i) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, on or about July 31 and January 
31 each year starting on July 31, 2004, a general procurement 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing all procurement activities 
under the Project for the following twelve months; 
- 34 -
(ii) 
review with the Bank, by August 31 and February 28 each year 
starting on August 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the plan referred to in paragraph (i) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the plan based on its recommendations and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of a General Procurement Plan 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
5. 
Micro-Credits under Part B.2. of the Project
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
the Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall monitor the activities under Part B.2. 
of the Project and supervise the Micro-Credits made by the Micro-Credit Institutions in 
accordance with the provisions and procedures set forth in (i) this paragraph; (ii) the 
Institutional Cooperation Arrangements executed between the Borrower and said Micro-
Credit Institutions; and (iii) the Micro-Credit Operational Manual; 
(b) 
the Micro-Credits shall be requested by a Beneficiary up to an aggregate 
amount of $10,000 equivalent and solely for the purpose of the activities under Part B.2. 
of the Project; 
(c) 
the Micro-Credits shall be carried out pursuant to a Micro-Credit 
Agreement, to be concluded between the Micro-Credit Institution and each Beneficiary, 
under terms and conditions described in more details in the Micro-Credit Operational 
Manual; and 
(d) 
the Borrower, through PROTRANSPORTE, shall cause the Micro-Credit 
Institution to exercise its rights under the Micro-Credit Agreements in such manner as to 
protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower, PROTRANSPORTE the Guarantor 
and the Bank in order to accomplish the purposes of Part B.2. of the Project, and, except 
as the Borrower, PROTRANSPORTE and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Micro-
Credit Institution shall not assign or abrogate the Micro-Credit Agreements or any 
provision thereof. 
- 35 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for the categories specified in paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$6,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 36 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
- 37 -
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
- 38 -
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank: 
Target Dates 
Performance Indicators 
 
Mid Term 
End of Project 
1. Number of km’s of High 
Capacity Bus Corridors 
completed 
15.5 km 
29.4 km 
2. Number of bus-stops and 
terminals completed 
19 bus-stops and South 
terminal in operation 
35 bus-stops and North 
and South terminal in 
operation 
3. Number of passengers using 
the new system 
200,000 passengers per 
typical weekday 
600,000 passengers per 
typical weekday 
4. Operation of system of high 
capacity bus-corridors  
Regulation covering the 
operational aspects of the 
system adopted and at 
least 1 bus service 
concession for the system 
awarded 
Whole system covered by 
the project in operation 
and all related 
concessions awarded 
5. 
Recuperation 
of 
public 
space 
 
100,000 square meters of 
public space recuperated 
and improved as well as 
40,000 square meters of 
green zones 
6. Air Quality Monitoring  
Monitoring network with 3 
stations implemented and 
in operation 
Monitoring results made 
available in Annual 
Report to the public 
7. Institutional strengthening 
of municipal transport agencies 
At least 40 municipal staff 
trained in planning, 
management and control 
of public transport  
At least 50 municipal 
staff trained in planning, 
management and control 
of public transport  
8. Social impact mitigation 
At least 800 affected 
public transport workers 
have benefited from micro 
credits or have received 
training for re-insertion in 
labor market 
At least 2,500 affected 
public transport workers 
have benefited from 
micro credits or have 
received training for re-
insertion in labor market.  
- 39 -
