CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7240-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Savings and Rural Finance – Second Phase Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 1, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7240-ME 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 2004, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(the Borrower), represented by its signatory on page 12 of this Agreement, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is a signatory of the Articles of Agreement of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the international treaty by 
which the Bank was created), which Articles of Agreement contain, inter alia, general 
provisions relating to loans extended by the Bank; 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has contracted from the Bank a loan in an amount 
of sixty four million six hundred thousand Dollars (the Prior Loan) in support of the 
Savings and Credit Sector Strengthening and Rural Microfinance Capacity Building 
Technical Assistance Project (the Prior Project) in the terms of the agreement entered into 
between  the Borrower and the Bank on February 28, 2003 (the Prior Loan Agreement); 
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
- 2 -
meanings therein set forth and  the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BANSEFI” means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, 
S.N.C., a Mexican development bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for 
purposes of the Loan and as the entity responsible for implementation of the Project; 
(b) 
“CNBV” means the Borrower’s Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de 
Valores (National Banking and Securities Commission); 
(c) 
“Confederación” means an entity, with its own legal personality, 
consisting of a voluntary association of Federaciones and charged by the Popular Savings 
and Credit Law with the responsibility of maintaining a deposit protection fund for the 
benefit of those who deposit their savings in Entidades;
(d) 
“Deposit Protection Fund” means the fund established pursuant to the 
Popular Savings and Credit Law; 
(e) 
“Core Team” means the administrative team within BANSEFI referred 
to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Entidad”
means an SCI which, having met certain regulatory 
requirements, has been authorized by CNBV to operate as a popular savings and credit 
entity pursuant to the Popular Savings and Credit Law; 
(g) 
“Expansion Project Area” means the municipalities in at least six of the 
following eight geographical regions of the United Mexican States identified in the 
“Implementation Letter” cited in the Prior Loan Agreement: (i) the State of Chiapas; (ii) 
the Huasteca area in the States of Hidalgo, San Luis Potosí and Veracruz; (iii) the State of 
Oaxaca; (iv) the State of Veracruz (excluding the Huasteca area therein); (v) the State of 
Guerrero (and adjacent economically marginal areas in the State of Morelos); (vi) the 
State of Michoacan (and adjacent economically marginal areas in the State of México); 
(vii) the State of Puebla (and adjacent economically marginal areas in the State of 
Tlaxcala); and (viii) the Sierra Gorda area in the States of Querétaro and Guanajuato;  
(h) 
“Federación” means an entity, with its own legal personality, consisting 
of a voluntary association of SCIs and charged by the Popular Savings and Credit Law 
with the responsibility of exercising regulatory supervision, auxiliary to that exercised by 
CNBV, over SCIs; 
- 3 -
(i) 
“FMR” means a financial monitoring report referred to in Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from 
BANSEFI to the Bank, containing the performance indicators for Project monitoring and 
evaluation;  
(k) 
“IPDP” means each of the following indigenous peoples’ development 
plans developed under the Prior Project: (i) March 2002 Plan de Desarrollo de Pueblos 
Indígenas de las Huastecas; (ii) March 2002 Plan de Desarrollo de Pueblos Indígenas de 
Chiapas; (iii) January 2003 Plan de Desarrollo de Pueblos Indígenas de Guerrero; (iv) 
January 2003 Plan de Desarrollo de Pueblos Indígenas de Oaxaca; (v) March 2003 Plan 
de Desarrollo de Pueblos Indígenas de Michoacán; (vi) March 2003 Plan de Desarrollo 
de Pueblos Indígenas de Veracruz; and (vii) August 2003 Plan de Desarrollo de Pueblos 
Indígenas de Puebla;
(l) 
“Mandato Contract” means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Popular Savings and Credit Law” means the Borrower’s Ley de Ahorro 
y Crédito Popular as published in the Borrower’s Diario Oficial de la Federación 
(Official Gazette) on June 4, 2001; 
(n) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement and approved by the Bank on May 6, 2004; 
(o) 
“SCI” means a Mexican savings and credit institution which, 
independently of its corporative or other organizational form, is subject to the provisions 
of the Popular Savings and Credit Law; 
(p) 
“SHCP” means the Borrower’s Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito 
Público (Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit); 
(q) 
“Social Development Model” means a methodology for the consultative 
elaboration of IPDPs and for the extension of Project benefits to economically 
marginalized sectors of the Mexican population, set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual; and 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
- 4 -
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to BANSEFI. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventy five 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($75,500,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, cause BANSEFI to 
open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account on the Borrower’s behalf 
in a commercial bank, satisfactory to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
- 5 -
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
- 6 -
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10. The Director General of BANSEFI, or the Director General 
Adjunto de Finanzas of BANSEFI, and any person or persons whom they shall jointly 
designate in writing are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall cause BANSEFI to carry out the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and technical 
practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract 
(Contrato de Mandato) with BANSEFI, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
(i) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan and as entity responsible for the 
implementation of the Project, meaning that, inter alia, 
BANSEFI agrees to: (A) represent the Borrower vis-à-vis the 
Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal applications to 
the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify disbursement 
by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds; and (B) carry out 
the Project according to the terms of this Agreement 
(particularly, but not limited to, the terms of Article IV of, and 
Schedules 4, 5, and 6 to this Agreement); and 
(ii) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SHCP, the Borrower shall 
cooperate fully with BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able 
to comply with all of BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) (A) of this Section and in Sections 4.01 and 
4.02 of this Agreement.  
- 7 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Mandato Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the Mandato Contract. In 
case of any conflict between the terms of: (i) the Mandato Contract; and (ii) those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
cause BANSEFI to prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of their respective parts of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
BANSEFI on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to establish and maintain 
financial management systems, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
cause BANSEFI to have the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
- 8 -
(ii) 
cause BANSEFI to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
cause BANSEFI to furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit of such 
financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
BANSEFI to: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause BANSEFI to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
- 9 -
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMRs shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Popular Savings and Credit Law or any part thereof or any 
regulations issued thereunder shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, 
waived or not enforced so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and 
adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
(b) 
BANSEFI shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
the Mandato Contract. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur. 
(b) 
Any event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur 
and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
- 10 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions namely, that the Mandato Contract has been entered into between the 
Borrower (through SHCP) and BANSEFI. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and 
BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by BANSEFI 
counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the Mandato Contract has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
BANSEFI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BANSEFI in accordance with 
the Mandato Contract’s terms. 
Section 6.03. The date December 30, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Titular 
de la Unidad  de Crédito Público of the Borrower’s SHCP is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
- 11 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
011-52-559158-1156 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, the United States of America as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By  /s/ Francisco Gil Díaz 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ James Wolfensohn 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods (excluding vehicles) 
1,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(2) 
Consultant services 
41,545,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(3) 
Training  
3,200,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures; 83% of 
local expenditures 
 
(4) 
Non-Consultants’ services 
25,900,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; 83% of 
 
local expenditures 
 
(5) 
Incremental operating costs 
1,600,000 
85% through the end 
 
of 2007; and 55% 
 
thereafter 
 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
0 
Amount due under 
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) 
Fee 
755,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
- 14 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(8) 
Unallocated 
1,500,000 
 
________
TOTAL 
75,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “non-consultants’ services” includes the cost of services relating 
to the data center, data warehouse, operating and supporting hardware, and closed virtual 
private network for developing a technology platform, all included under Part B of the 
Project; 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” includes reasonable recurrent 
expenditures incurred in connection with operation of the Core Team for rentals, travel, 
room, board and per diem expenditures, maintenance, consumable materials and supplies 
and utilities (but not including any salaries), which would not have been incurred absent 
the Project; and 
(e) 
the term “training” includes only: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem expenditures incurred by trainees in connection with their training; (ii) 
reasonable fees charged by consultants serving as trainers; (iii) reasonable course fees 
charged by academic institutions; (iv) reasonable training facility and equipment rental 
expenses; and (v) reasonable training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this paragraph. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
- 15 -
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $7,500,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures for Categories 1, 2, 4 and 5 incurred after 
June 1, 2003 (but in no case incurred earlier than the twelve months immediately before 
the date of this Agreement); and 
(b) 
payments made for Parts A.1, A.2, B.2 (a), C.1 and C.3 of the Project 
until the allocations under the Prior Loan for similar expenditures have been committed 
or disbursed. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: 
(a) 
for goods and non-consultant services under contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each; 
(b) 
for consultants’ services provided by firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(c) 
for consultants’ services provided by individuals under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) 
for incremental operating costs and training, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening the SCI 
sector with SCIs which are compliant with the Popular Savings and Credit Law, 
financially viable, operationally effective, managerially sound, technologically upgraded, 
and providing an enhanced level of outreach and access to financial services by the 
underserved Mexican populations.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Strengthening SCIs and the Regulation and Supervision Thereof
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to about 150 individual SCIs requiring further 
assistance to that provided under the Prior Loan, and to about 45 additional SCIs, as the case 
may be:  
(a) 
to carry out assessments of its financial and managerial condition so as to 
determine whether an SCI qualifies for authorization by CNBV to operate as an Entidad,
whether an SCI requires technical assistance for its strengthening or restructuring in order to 
qualify for such authorization, or whether an SCI should be liquidated;  
(b) 
to support the design and implementation of institutional strengthening 
plans to allow SCIs to qualify for such authorization;  
(c) 
to, with respect to the SCIs additional to those assisted in the Prior Project 
with operations in the Expansion Project Area, if any, develop a financial services outreach 
and communications strategy focusing on the low-income populations within the said area; 
and  
(d) 
in support of liquidation of unviable SCIs. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to about 40 individual SCIs requiring further 
assistance to that provided under the Prior Loan, to specifically develop strategies to deepen 
penetration and expand their financial services outreach, and to improve their effectiveness 
and efficiency. 
- 17 -
3. 
Provision of technical assistance on aspects relating to the creation and functioning 
of the Deposit Protection Fund at the level of Federación and Confederación.
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to assist BANSEFI in the management and 
monitoring of the assistance provided to SCIs by consultants in particular as to their 
classification and certification, and to the consistency in the application of classification 
guidelines across individual SCIs by such consultants. 
5. 
Carrying out a training program for: 
(a) 
the staff of SCIs, focusing on the areas of accounting and financial 
management, portfolio management, risk management, credit analysis, governance aspects, 
market analysis and understanding, and management of SCIs at the level of Federación; and 
(b) 
staff of CNBV, BANSEFI and Federaciones to support their regulatory and 
supervisory roles. 
Part B: Developing a Technology Platform
1. 
Provision of hardware services to strengthen the technological capacity of 
BANSEFI and the SCIs including, inter alia, a data center, and virtual private network 
services for connectivity across individual SCIs. 
2. 
Provision to the SCIs of:  
(a) 
an application package; 
(b) 
data warehouse, enterprise resource planning system, and internet-based 
banking; and 
(c) 
other technological developments proposed by BANSEFI and agreed to by 
the Bank. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance: 
(a) 
to manage and monitor the quality of the hardware and operational services 
referred to under Part B.1 of the Project, and the application software and other items 
referred to in Part B. 2 of the Project; 
- 18 -
(b) 
to develop a strategy and an organizational plan for BANSEFI’s service of 
technology platform support; 
(c) 
to verify and validate the application software; and 
(d) 
to manage and monitor implementation of the technology platform 
(developed under this Part B to the Project) in the SCIs. 
Part C: Monitoring and Evaluation, Studies and Information Dissemination
1. 
Improvement of  the size and credibility of the annual household surveys carried out 
by BANSEFI, interpreting the data collected through these surveys, and ensuring the 
consistency of the various datasets. 
2. 
Evaluation of the implementation performance and short-term outcomes of Parts A 
and B of the Project. 
3. 
Focusing the content of the dissemination campaign carried out by BANSEFI to 
disseminate information on the SCIs to instill confidence in their clients, to market the 
benefits of financial intermediation, and to disseminate the range of financial products 
provided under the new technology platform referred to in Part B of the Project. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to develop new savings and financial products, to 
price the technology platform services, and to carry out selected studies, proposed by the 
Borrower and/or BANSEFI, and approved by the Bank, on subjects relevant to the SCI 
sector and to sustainable development in general. 
5. 
Carrying out workshops and seminars to disseminate the findings of the monitoring 
and evaluation outcomes and studies referred to in Parts C.1, C.2, and C.4 of the Project. 
Part D: Project Management
Establishment and operation of the Core Team, including training, as may be 
required, for Project implementation. 
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2009. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2009 
5% 
through March 15, 2019 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 20 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultants’ Services
Part A: General
Goods and non-consultants’ services for the data center, data warehouse, 
operating and supporting hardware, and closed virtual network included in Part B of the 
Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and non-
consultants’ services for the data center, data warehouse, operating and supporting 
hardware, and closed virtual private network included in Part B of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c) 
The invitation to bid for each contract shall be advertised in the 
Borrower’s public electronic advertising and bidding system (COMPRANET) and in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación). The invitation to bid for 
each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
- 22 -
Part C: Other Procurement Provisions
1. 
Goods and the non-consultants’ services referred to in Part B.1 of this Section 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract or per bid package, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Direct Contracting
Goods and non-consultant services which should be procured as an extension of 
an existing contract and must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible 
with existing equipment and costing $800,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to Part B of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
- 23 -
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection under a Fixed Budget
Services for applications, certifications and business continuity, electronic 
banking, and advertising and media planning under Parts B and C of the Project, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
- 24 -
2. 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
(a) 
Services which are estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Services for: (i) institutional strengthening of SCIs under Parts A.1 and 
A.2 of the Project; (ii) the applications packages under Part B.2 (a) of the Project; (iii) 
monitoring the technology platform under Part B.3 (a) of the Project; (iv) information 
dissemination under Part C.3 of the Project; and (v) monitoring and evaluation under Part 
C.1 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $36,000,000 equivalent, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. 
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, as well as with respect to each such 
contract of such cost covered by Parts C.1 or C.3 of this Section II, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
- 25 -
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, as well as with respect to each such contract of such cost covered by Parts C.1 
or C.3 of this Section II, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. 
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, except that the terms of reference related to such contracts are subject to prior 
approval by the Bank, absent which approval the respective contract cannot be financed 
by the Loan. 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower through 
BANSEFI shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 27 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, through BANSEFI, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower through BANSEFI shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 28 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 29 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Project Implementation Arrangements 
The Mandato Contract shall, inter alia, obligate BANSEFI to: 
1. 
Carry out the Project in accordance with the terms of the Project Operational 
Manual, to the extent such terms are consistent with those of this Agreement (in case of 
any inconsistency between the terms of the Project Operational Manual and the terms of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail). 
2. 
With respect to Part A.1 of the Project: 
 
(a) 
select specialized institutions, according to the consultant selection 
methods set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to carry out the assessments and 
provide the technical assistance referred to in said Part A.1 of the Project; 
 
(b) 
contract in writing with said specialized institutions (using the model 
contract set forth in the Project Operational Manual) so that they:  
(i) 
carry out said assessments according to assessment guidelines 
prepared by CNBV; 
(ii) 
enter into a written agreement (using the model agreement set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual) with a Federación (and 
any of the Federación’s member SCIs willing to co-sign said 
agreement) to either: 
(A) 
provide each such SCI with the technical assistance 
referred to in said Part A.1 in exchange for said SCI’s 
commitment 
to 
implement 
SCI 
institutional 
strengthening plans set forth in such agreements and thus 
meet SCI semi-annual performance standards and targets 
also set forth in such agreements (which plans, standards 
and targets are consistent with the requirements that 
must be met in order for an SCI to qualify for CNBV 
authorization to operate as an Entidad); or 
 
- 30 -
(B) 
provide the SCIs additional to those assisted in the Prior 
Project with operations in the Expansion Project Area, if 
any, with an outreach and communications strategy 
focusing on the  low-income populations within the said 
area, such strategy to include annual performance 
standards and targets; and 
(C) 
assist in each such SCI’s liquidation if the prior 
assessment of the SCI established that the SCI is 
unviable; 
(iii) 
suspend all technical assistance provision to an SCI at 
BANSEFI’s request if the SCI fails to meet its semi-annual 
performance standards and targets referred to in subparagraphs 2 
(b) (ii) (A) and 2 (b) (ii) (B) above; and 
(iv) 
ensure that the IPDP and Social Development Model for each of 
the regions of the Expansion Project Area is carried out for the 
region in question as part of the implementation of Part A.1 of 
the Project (through, inter alia, integration of IPDP outcomes 
into the standards and targets referred to in paragraph 2 (b) (ii) 
(B) of this Schedule). 
 
(c) 
pay said specialized institutions for the services they render under their 
contracts with BANSEFI referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule; 
(d) 
systematically monitor said agreements between said specialized 
institutions and the SCIs in order to verify compliance with said semi-annual 
performance standards and targets; and 
(e) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under its contracts, 
referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, with the specialized institutions also 
referred to therein, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
3. 
With respect to Part B of the Project, provide the services for the developing of 
the technology platform referred to therein to SCIs throughout Mexico at an agreed fee 
and gradually establish a fee-for-service regime whereby the full operating costs of the 
technology platform would be recoverable from SCIs by the end of the system’s first 
three years of operation. 
- 31 -
4. 
(a) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable BANSEFI to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators 
specified in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of  the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and every year thereafter 
during the period of Project implementation, annual reports integrating the results of the 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of such reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; 
(c) 
review with the Bank shortly after such reports’ preparation, the reports 
referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and 
taking into account the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
(d) 
as part of the annual review starting in June 2005, as well as at the 
conclusion of Project implementation, discuss the results of household surveys and case 
studies, prepared by BANSEFI separately for such review and thereafter for such 
conclusion under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, relating to Project and SCI 
sector performance. 
5. 
Maintain a team within BANSEFI throughout implementation, with sufficient 
resources and staff in numbers and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank, acting under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to support the execution of 
the 
Project.
 
