LOAN NUMBER 4753 -IN 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Roads Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 8, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4753 - IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 2004, between INDIA, acting by its 
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Borrower has adopted a nationwide rural roads program or Pradhan 
Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (the Program), whose objective is to promote rural 
connectivity and provide all-weather access to every eligible habitation, and declared its 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)  
in support of the Program, the Project will be carried out in part by the 
States of Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter called 
the Participating States), with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to each of the Participating States a part of the proceeds 
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
 
(D)   the Borrower has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to provide 
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to two hundred and six 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 206,000,000) (the Credit);  
 
(E) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project 
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) are made; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, the Association 
and the Participating States (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
-2- 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through May 1, 2004 (the IBRD General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the IBRD General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
a) 
“District” means an administrative subdivision of a Participating State; 
b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures for goods, works and 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
Eligible Categories; 
d) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework, dated August 6, 2004, setting 
forth a framework of social and environmental actions, measures and policies applicable 
to the Project, and designed to maximize the benefits thereunder, avoid or mitigate any 
adverse impacts and, in the case of PAPs, if such adverse impacts cannot be avoided 
altogether, provide PAPs with alternative opportunities to enhance or restore their 
livelihoods; 
e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement and Section 3.02 (a) of the Project Agreement; 
f) 
“First Phase” means the initial batch of Subprojects to be funded under 
the Loan or Credit in accordance with pre-existing criteria applicable under the Program; 
g) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning on  
April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year; 
h) 
 “MoRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Rural Development; 
i) 
“Participating District” means any District of a Participating State which 
is a recipient of funds provided under the Loan or Credit for purposes of implementing 
one or more Subprojects in the District; 
-3- 
j) 
“Participating State” means any State which is, or may become, party to 
the Project Agreement, or the successor thereto; 
k) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
August 6, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods  
(or longer) of Project implementation; 
l) 
“Program Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means a branch of SRRDA 
located in a Participating District; 
m)   
“Project Affected Person” or “PAP” means any person who owns or 
occupies land, property or other assets or structures which are adversely affected by the 
Project, or whose livelihood, business, trade or other occupation is adversely affected as a 
result of the Project, and who is declared as such under the ESMF; 
n)   
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank, the 
Association and Participating States of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Project Agreement; 
o)   
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan/Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule1 
to this Agreement; 
p) 
“Second Phase” means subsequent batches of Subprojects to be funded 
under the Loan or Credit other than those supported under the First Phase; 
q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
r) 
“State-level Rural Road Development Agency” or “SRRDA” means the 
State-level Rural Road Development Agency, however named, referred to in paragraph 1 
(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; 
s) 
 “Subproject” means any package of construction or upgrading activities 
supported under Part A.1 of the Project; and 
t) 
“Supplemental Operations Manual” means the Supplemental Operations 
Manual, dated August 6, 2004, adopted by the Borrower, giving details of the guidelines 
and procedures as shall have been agreed with the Bank and the Association for the 
implementation, supervision and monitoring of the Project, as the same may be amended 
from time to time. 
 
-4- 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ninety nine  
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($99,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project, and the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 (b) 
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, 
interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set 
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
-5- 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
-6- 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end: 
 
(i) 
shall carry out Part C.1 of the Project through MoRD with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and engineering practices, 
and with due regard to social and environmental considerations, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Participating 
States to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of Participating States 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Participating States 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
 
(b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause 
MoRD to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the ESMF. 
 (c)   
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to 
the each of the Participating States in accordance with the Borrower’s standard 
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
-7- 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), in respect of Parts A, B and C.2 of the 
Project shall be carried out by the Participating States pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
respective financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such Fiscal Year (or such other period agreed to by 
the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements 
by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
-8- 
 
(c)  
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Report-based Disbursements or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are 
included in any audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant 
to paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) For purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which:  
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five 
(45) days after each subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
-9- 
 
(a) 
any Participating State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement;  
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Participating State will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by each of the Participating States, and is legally binding upon each 
of the Participating States in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
-10- 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, PIN 110001 
India 
 
Cable address:                      Telex: 
 
ECOFAIRS                      953-3166175 
New Delhi 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction 
 
and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Ranjit Bannerji 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  
 
 
 
  /s/ Michael F. Carter 
-11- 
 
Country Director, India 
-12- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Part A: General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
Category
(Expressed in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
 94,352,500 
90% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
940,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% of  
 
local expenditures  
 
(ex-factory costs) and  
80% of local 
expenditures for other  
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services  
2,970,000 
90% 
other than services  
provided by tax-exempt 
 
providers 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ services 
 740,000 
 
100% 
 
provided by tax-exempt  
 
providers, and training 
  
 
(5) 
Front End Fee 
497,500 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
 99,500,000
-13- 
2. 
 For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “tax-exempt providers” means non-governmental organizations, 
community-based organizations, training providers and other educational and research 
institutions, which are tax exempt under the laws of the Borrower. 
3.   
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works under contracts 
costing less than $1,500,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each, in the case of consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent each, 
in the case of individual consultants; and (d) training, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other relevant 
information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit, or shall 
cause Participating States to submit, to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
Part B: Special Account 
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
-14- 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that it is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
-15- 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
-16- 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $30,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $15,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $75,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
-17- 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
-18- 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
-19- 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to achieve broader and more sustainable access to 
markets and social services in Participating Districts. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: New Construction and Upgrading of Core Rural Road Networks
1. 
New construction and upgrading of the core rural road networks in Participating 
States to provide all-weather road access to eligible habitations in Participating Districts. 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services to assist in the preparation of designs, 
supervision of civil works and management of the Project. 
3. 
Implementation of ancillary social and environmental measures arising out of the 
application of the ESMF. 
Part B: Periodic and Routine Maintenance of Core Rural Road Networks 
Implementation of periodic and routine maintenance works to be conducted on 
the core rural road networks in Participating Districts in accordance with an annual 
maintenance plan. 
Part C: Institutional Development
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of goods and equipment: 
1.  
at the national level, to establish a poverty impact and rural road user satisfaction 
monitoring mechanism, and build the capacity of central departments; and  
2.  
at the state-level, to assist SRRDAs in planning, procuring, supervising and 
reporting on their roads works programs. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009.
-20- 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I:
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II:
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, and works, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
 
-21- 
4. 
Force Account. Works which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Force 
Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
Section III:
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
-22- 
SCHEDULE 4 
 Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain adequate staffing resources to be responsible for 
establishment of agreed financial management arrangements, preparation and timely 
submission of financial reports, ensuring the smooth and timely flow of funds, and 
provision of overall guidance in the area of financial management under the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project shall be implemented in accordance 
with the Supplemental Operations Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the 
Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation 
of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall allocate the proceeds of the Loan among Participating States: 
(a) 
in the case of the First Phase, on the basis of existing criteria applicable 
to the Program as a whole; and  
(b) 
in the case of the Second Phase, on the basis of weightages, performance 
indicators, targets, and verified achievements thereof as shall have been agreed with the 
Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower shall on no less than three occasions in the course of 
implementation of the Project undertake a study on the poverty impact of the Project, 
using terms of reference which shall be acceptable to the Bank, and publish a report of 
the findings thereof, the first such report being the baseline report to be made public not 
later than March 2005, the second such report to be made public not later than  
March 2007, and the final such report to be made public not later than March 2010. 
5. 
Not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
beginning not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after 
the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause MoRD to submit to the Bank consolidated 
quarterly reports on the progress of the Project, according to a format acceptable to the 
Bank and set forth in the Supplemental Operations Manual, including quarterly progress 
reports on compliance with social and environmental safeguard measures under the 
Project, giving details of measures taken in furtherance of the ESMF, conditions, if any, 
which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of the ESMF, and 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions. 
6. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
-23- 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank by March 31, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
-24- 
SCHEDULE 5 
Amortization Schedule 
Payment Due Date
Payment of Principal
June 15, 2010  
 
 
 
 
 
2,855,000 
December 15, 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
2,885,000 
June 15, 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
2,910,000 
December 15, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
2,940,000 
June 15, 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
2,970,000 
December 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
3,000,000 
June 15, 2013  
 
 
 
 
 
3,030,000 
December 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
3,065,000 
June 15, 2014  
 
 
 
 
 
3,095,000 
December 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
3,125,000 
June 15, 2015  
 
 
 
 
 
3,155,000 
December 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
3,190,000 
June 15, 2016  
 
 
 
 
 
3,220,000 
December 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
3,255,000 
June 15, 2017  
 
 
 
 
 
3,285,000 
December 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
3,320,000 
June 15, 2018  
 
 
 
 
 
3,355,000 
December 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
3,390,000 
June 15, 2019  
 
 
 
 
 
3,425,000 
December 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
3,460,000 
June 15, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
3,495,000 
December 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
3,530,000 
June 15, 2021  
 
 
 
 
 
3,565,000 
December 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
3,600,000 
June 15, 2022  
 
 
 
 
 
3,635,000 
December 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
3,675,000 
June 15, 2023  
 
 
 
 
 
3,710,000 
December 15, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
3,750,000 
June 15, 2024  
 
 
 
 
 
3,785,000 
December 15, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
3,825,000 
 
_________ 
 
 
TOTAL 
99,500,000
