Legal Department 
CONFIDENTIAL DRAFT 
(Subject to Change) 
KNordlander 
March 22, 2004 
LOAN NUMBER ______-IND 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Project – Phase II) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated                                                  , 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER ______ -IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated                                             , 2004, between REPUBLIC 
OF 
INDONESIA 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
November 11, 1997, and January 21, 1998, describing a program designed to protect, 
rehabilitate and achieve sustainable use of coral reefs and associated ecosystems 
(COREMAP) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such 
Program;  
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of COREMAP through a series of credits over a period of approximately 17 
years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of COREMAP; 
(C) 
the Borrower has also requested that the International Development 
Association (the Association) support the Borrower’s execution of COREMAP through a 
series of credits over a period of approximately 17 years to be utilized by the Borrower in 
the implementation of COREMAP and by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Bank is 
making a credit to the Borrower in the amount in various currencies equivalent to 
_______________________ Special Drawing Rights (SDR _________) (the Credit); 
(D) 
the Borrower has also requested assistance from the resources of the 
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund for funding Part B.1, Part B.2 (e), Part B.4 (b), 
and Part B.5 (a) and (c) of the Project and, said request having been approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
funded from contributions to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 2002-0005, which may include funds carried over from the second 
replenishment of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, 
the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility has 
agreed to extend a grant (the Grant) to the Borrower in an amount equivalent to seven 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($7,500,000) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Global Environment Facility Grant Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank 
(the GEF Grant Agreement); and 
(E) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement between the 
- 2 -
Borrower and the International Development Association (the Association) of even date 
herewith (the Development Credit Agreement) (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(F) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) are made; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
- 3 -
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the term “Development Credit Agreement” means the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the 
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement. 
- 4 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty three 
million two hundred thousand Dollars ($33,200,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 
for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project Parts B.1 (e) and B.3 (c), 
(f), and (h) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by 
the Borrower on account of District Grants and Village Grants made under Parts B.1 (e) 
and B.3 (c), (f), and (h) of the Project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
- 5 -
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on _____ 15 and ________ 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in the Schedule  to this Agreement. 
 
- 6 -
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. Subject to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, Sections 2.02 (b), 3.01, 
3.02, 3.03, 4.01 and 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1 through 
5 thereto are incorporated in this Agreement, with the following modifications in said 
Sections and Schedules 2, 3, 4, and 5, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a) 
the term “Association” shall be read as “Bank”; 
(b) 
the term “Credit” and “Credit Account” shall be read as “Loan” and 
“Loan Account”; and 
(c) 
the term “this Agreement” shall be read as “the Loan Agreement”. 
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has 
been notified otherwise by the Bank: 
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association pursuant 
to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the Development Credit Agreement 
enumerated in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of 
the Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name 
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and 
(b) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Association pursuant to the provisions of any of such Sections of the Development Credit 
Agreement or Schedules thereto shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Association 
and Bank. 
- 7 -
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Development Credit Agreement has been executed 
and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals there under, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 4.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
- 8 -
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Budget 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE  
Amortization Schedule 
 
