CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4750 - IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 30, 2004 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
22
LOAN NUMBER 4750 - IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 2004, between INDIA, acting by its 
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the State of Madhya Pradesh (Madhya 
Pradesh) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) 
available to Madhya Pradesh, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Madhya 
Pradesh  (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through May 1, 2004 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Action Plan” means an action plan for the application of a CPMF, DSF, 
GAF, PMF, RF or TDF, as the case may be, issued pursuant to a SMP and to be 
implemented thereunder; 
(b) 
 “Consultation Framework” or “CF” means a Consultation Framework, 
giving details of a strategy for consultations with stakeholders under the Project;  
2
(c) 
 “Cultural Property Management Framework” or “CPMF” means a 
Cultural Property Management Framework, giving details of measures deemed necessary 
or appropriate to protect and preserve places of religious significance, historical 
monuments or other cultural property, and to avoid loss or damage to such assets or, if 
unavoidable, to mitigate such loss or damage; 
(d) 
“Dam Safety Framework” or “DSF” means a Dam Safety Framework, 
giving details of measures deemed necessary or appropriate to ensure dam safety, 
including construction, supervision and quality assurance requirements, operational and 
maintenance arrangements, and emergency preparedness plans; 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures for goods, works and 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
Eligible Categories; 
(g) 
 “Environment and Social Assessment” or “ESA” means Madhya 
Pradesh’s Environment and Social Assessment, dated April 2004, giving details of the 
environmental and social status of the Project, including a detailed assessment of the 
social and environmental impacts of the Project, and an analysis of measures required to 
maximize the social and environmental benefits accruing under the Project, and avoid or 
mitigate any adverse impacts;  
(h) 
 “Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 (a) of the Project Agreement; 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower and Madhya 
Pradesh beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
(j) 
“Gender Action Framework” or “GAF” means a Gender Action 
Framework, giving details of measures deemed necessary or appropriate to promote the 
role of women, enhance their livelihood opportunities, and support social justice and 
protection actions; 
(k) 
 “Madhya Pradesh” means the Borrower’s State of Madhya Pradesh, or 
any successor thereto; 
(l) 
“NGO” means non-governmental organization; 
(m) 
“Panchayat” means a local self government body established under the 
Madhya Pradesh’s Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam Act 1993 (No. 1 of 1994); 
3
(n) 
“Pest Management Framework” or “PMF” means a Pest Management 
Framework, giving details of a strategy to promote the use of biological or environmental 
control methods, and to reduce reliance on chemical pesticides, except as a last resort and 
under strict conditions; 
(o) 
 “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
May 2, 2004, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(p) 
“Project Affected Person” or “PAP” means any person who owns or 
occupies land, property or other assets or structures which are adversely affected by the 
Project, or whose livelihood, business, trade or other occupation is adversely affected as a 
result of the Project, and who is declared accordingly eligible to compensation or other 
assistance under the relevant RF; 
(q) 
“Project Implementation Coordination Unit” or “PICU” means the 
Project Implementation Coordination Unit referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement; 
(r) 
 “Project Implementation Entity” or “PIE” means any entity involved in 
the implementation of the Project and referred to as such in the PIP; 
(s) 
 “Project 
Implementation 
Plan” 
or 
“PIP” 
means 
the 
Project 
Implementation Plan, dated May 2, 2004, adopted by Madhya Pradesh, giving details of 
the guidelines and procedures as shall have been agreed with the Bank for the 
implementation, supervision and monitoring of the Project, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Project Implementation Plan; 
(t) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Madhya 
Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(u) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule1 to this 
Agreement; 
(v) 
“Resettlement Framework” or “RF” means a Resettlement Framework, 
giving details of measures necessary or appropriate to avoid or minimize any adverse 
impact or hardship to PAPs or, if such adverse impact or hardship cannot be avoided 
altogether, facilitate the compensation and resettlement of such PAPs;  
4
(w) 
“River Basin” means any one of more of the river basins of Madhya 
Pradesh; 
(x) 
“Scheme Modernization Plan” or “SMP” means a Scheme Modernization 
Plan referred to in paragraph 12 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as such SMP 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the SMP;  
(y) 
 “Selected River Basins” means five of the River Basins to be found in the 
northern part of Madhya Pradesh, and which have been selected of purposes of 
implementation of the Project, namely: Betwa, Chambal, Ken, Sindh and Tons; 
(z) 
“Scheme” means any one or more of the rehabilitation or modernization 
schemes referred to under Part C.1 of the Project, and to be supported thereunder;  
(aa) 
“Sind Basin Development and Management Board” or “SBDMB” means 
the Sind Basin Development and Management Board referred to in paragraph 3 (d) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(bb) 
“Social and Environment Management Framework” or “SEMF” means 
Madhya Pradesh’s Social and Environment Management Framework, dated April 2004, 
issued pursuant to the ESA, and describing a process framework governing the 
implementation of the Project, designed to maximize the social and environmental benefits 
accruing under the Project, and avoid or mitigate any adverse impacts, including a CF, a 
CPMF, a DSF, a GAF, a PMF, a RF and a TDF, as such SEMF may be amended from 
time to time;  
(cc) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
(dd) 
“State Water Board” or “SWB” means the State Water Board of Madhya 
Pradesh; 
(ee) 
“State Water Resources Agency” or “SWaRA” means the State Water 
Resources Agency referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(ff) 
“State Water Resources Data and Analysis Center” or “SWaRDAC” 
means the State Water Resources Data and Analysis Center referred to in paragraph 3 (b) 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(gg) 
 “State Water Tariff Regulatory Commission ” or “SWaTReC” means the 
State Water Tariff Regulatory Commission referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement; 
5
(hh) 
“Tons Basin Development and Management Board” or “TBDMB” means 
the Tons Basin Development and Management Board referred to in paragraph 3 (d) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(ii) 
 “Tribal Development Framework” or “TDF” means a Tribal 
Development Framework, giving details of measures deemed necessary or appropriate to 
ensure that Tribal Groups do not suffer adverse effects as a result of the Project and are 
able to receive culturally-compatible social and economic benefits therefrom;  
(jj) 
“Tribal Group” means a tribal group specified in the ESA; 
(kk) 
“WRD” means the Water Resources Department of Madhya Pradesh; and 
(ll) 
“WUA” means water user association. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred and ninety four million and twenty thousand Dollars ($394,020,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
6
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
7
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Madhya Pradesh to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Madhya Pradesh 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Madhya 
Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Madhya 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the states of India. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Madhya Pradesh 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
8
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
as a result of events that have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Madhya 
Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(b) 
 Madhya Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an event specified in paragraph (b) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
9
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Madhya Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Madhya Pradesh in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
953-31-66175 FINE IN 
91-11-2309-2511 
 
New Delhi 
91-11-2309-2477 
 
91-11-2309-3133 
 
10
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Ranjit Bannerji 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
 
  /s/ Michael F. Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
11
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Part A: General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
 
 
  
 
Loan Allocated 
 
 
 
 
(Expressed in 
% of Experience  
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
1) Works 
 
271,640,000 
90% 
 
2) Goods 
 
47,200,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures, 100% of  
 
local expenditures (ex- 
 
factory cost), and 80%  
 
of local expenditures for  
 
other items procured  
 
locally 
 
 
3) (a) Consultants’ services (other 
19,800,000 
90% 
 
than services provided by 
 
 
tax-exempt providers) 
 
(b) Consultants’ services  
2,000,000 
100% 
Provided by tax-exempt 
Providers 
 
 
 
4) Training 
 
18,109,900 
100% 
 
5) Operating costs 
20,300,000 
80% until June 30, 2007 
 
70% until June 30, 2008 
 
60% until June 30, 2009,  
 
and 50% thereafter 
 
6) Voluntary Retirement  
13,000,000 
100% 
 
Scheme 
 
 
 
 
7) Front End Fee 
1,970,100 
Amount due under  
 
Section 2.04 of this  
 
__________ 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
394,020,000
12
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental costs arising under the 
Project on account of the operation and maintenance of any rehabilitated or modernized 
Schemes, buildings, equipment or vehicles; office rental and expenses; hiring of vehicles; 
supplies; salaries of additional staff, and travel and other allowances;  
 
(d) 
the term “tax-exempt providers” means non-governmental organizations, 
community-based organizations, training providers and other educational and research 
institutions, which are tax exempt under the laws of the Borrower; and 
 
(e) 
the term “Voluntary Retirement Scheme” or “VRS” means payments 
under Part B.1 of the Project made pursuant to a Voluntary Retirement Scheme approved 
by Madhya Pradesh, and in accordance with guidelines and procedures set forth in a VRS 
action plan adopted by Madhya Pradesh and acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Part on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 1, 2004; and 
(b) 
payments under VRS, except on the basis of, and in accordance with, an 
action plan referred to in paragraph 2 (e) of Part A.2 of this Schedule.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ services under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, in the case of consulting firms, and 
$50,000 equivalent each, in the case of individual consultants; (c) operating costs; 
(d) training; and (e) payments under VRS amounting to less than $15,000 per beneficiary, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
13
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other relevant 
information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit, or shall 
cause Madhya Pradesh to submit, to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of 
such request. 
Part B: Special Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that it is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
14
 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
15
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
For the purposes of this Annex:  
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $40,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $20,000,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed $100,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts that in the aggregate do not exceed the said Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
16
 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
17
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 
of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
18
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve productivity of water, thus contributing 
to sustainable growth and poverty reduction, in Selected River Basins. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Water Resources Management – Institutions and Instruments
Provision of technical advisory services and other material support as needed for 
the establishment and maintenance of SWaRA, SWB, SWaRDAC, SWaTReC, SBDMB 
and TBDMB, and to strengthen their capacity to discharge their respective functions. 
Part B: Service Delivery – Irrigation and Drainage Institutions
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training, acquisition of goods and 
implementation on a pilot basis of a Voluntary Retirement Scheme, to assist Madhya 
Pradesh in achieving its vision of modern, lean and financially sustainable institutions 
with appropriate human resources and skills-mix, knowledge base and other analytical 
tools, to deliver efficient, socially and environmentally sustainable, and cost effective 
irrigation and drainage services to farmers, using modern techniques and business 
processes. 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and material assistance to support piloting 
of options for the decentralized management of irrigation and drainage schemes, through 
strengthening of WUAs, Panchayats and other stakeholders, and increased public-private 
partnerships. 
Part C: Improving Productivity of Selected Existing Irrigation and Drainage Assets in 
Five River Basins
1. 
Rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation assets in Selected River Basins on a 
demand-driven basis to achieve reliable delivery of water measured and delivered on a 
volumetric basis in the irrigation systems, through provision of technical advisory services 
and equipment, and rehabilitation works, for the design and installation of volumetric 
delivery mechanisms, electronic and other measuring devices, and computerized 
operations and management information systems, development of an appropriate 
knowledge base, and detailed consultations with WUAs, Panchayats and other 
stakeholders at the appropriate levels. 
 
19
 
2.  
Provision of technical advisory services and other material assistance to support a 
participatory and demand-driven program of agricultural intensification and crop 
diversification, including improved agricultural support services, extension activities and 
on-farm adaptive trials, study tours and other forms of training for farmers, promotion of 
environmentally sustainable techniques, improvements in livestock and dairy 
management, investments in related infrastructure for preservation of perishable goods 
produced under any Scheme, and knowledge dissemination and outreach programs using 
village kiosks. 
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and other material assistance to improve 
fish production techniques for fish produced in village ponds and other water bodies to be 
found within the boundaries of the Selected River Basins. 
Part D: Project Management Support
Provision of technical advisory services and other material assistance to assist 
PICU in the coordination, and monitoring and evaluation, of the Project, and facilitate the 
preparation of feasibility studies of further irrigation and drainage infrastructure. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2010. 
20
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal
May 15, 2010 
11,300,000 
 
November 15, 2010 
11,415,000 
 
May 15, 2011 
11,530,000 
 
November 15, 2011 
11,650,000 
 
May 15, 2012 
11,770,000 
 
November 15, 2012 
11,885,000 
 
May 15, 2013 
12,010,000 
 
November 15, 2013 
12,130,000 
 
May 15, 2014 
12,255,000 
 
November 15, 2014 
12,375,000 
 
May 15, 2015 
12,505,000 
 
November 15, 2015 
12,630,000 
 
May 15, 2016 
12,760,000  
 
November 15, 2016 
12,885,000 
 
May 15, 2017 
13,020,000 
 
November 15, 2017 
13,150,000 
 
May 15, 2018 
13,285,000 
 
November 15, 2018 
13,420,000 
 
May 15, 2019 
13,555,000 
 
November 15, 2019 
13,690,000 
 
May 15, 2020 
13,830,000 
 
November 15, 2020 
13,970,000 
 
May 15, 2021 
14,115,000 
 
November 15, 2021 
14,255,000 
 
May 15, 2022 
14,400,000 
 
November 15, 2022 
14,550,000 
 
May 15, 2023 
14,695,000 
 
November 15, 2023 
14,845,000 
 
May 15, 2024 
14,995,000 
 
November 15, 2024 
15,145,000
TOTALS: 
 394,020,000
