CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7327-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Bahia State Integrated Project: Rural Poverty – Projeto de Combate a Pobreza no 
Interior da Bahía “PRODUZIR II”)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
Dated December 14, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7327-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 2005, between the  INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE 
OF BAHIA (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended, 
through May 1, 2004), with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
- 2 -
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
 
(a) 
“Approved POA” means each approved annual operating plan referred to 
in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Area A Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to finance 
Community Subprojects in the 100 Municipalities with the lowest HDI-M; 
 
(c) 
“Area B Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to finance 
Community Subprojects in Municipalities other than the Municipalities referred to in (b) 
above; 
(d) 
“CAR” means Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Ação Regional, the 
Borrower’s development agency for regional activities; 
 
(e) 
“Community Association” means a civil association formed by members 
of a community (associação civil) duly established in the Borrower’s territory in accordance 
with the Guarantor’s laws, and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
for participating in the Project; 
 
(f) 
“Community Subproject” means any investment referred to in Part A of 
the Project to be carried out by a Community Association utilizing the proceeds of a Grant, 
and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
- 3 -
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“FUNAI” means Fundação Nacional do Índio, the National Indian 
Foundation established by the Guarantor’s Decree No. 564, dated June 08, 1992 and 
pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law No. 5371 of December 5, 1967; 
(k) 
“Grant” means an Area A Grant or an Area B Grant; 
 
(l) 
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a Community Association providing for a Grant; 
 
(m) 
“HDI” means the Borrower’s human development index, which is 
measured by the Guarantor’s Instituto de Pesquisas Econômicas Aplicadas – (IPEA) on the 
basis of the indicators for health, education and income in the Borrower’s territory; 
 
(n) 
“HDI-M” means the human development index of a Municipality, which is 
measured by Fundação João Pinheiro on the basis of the indicators for health, education 
and income in such Municipality’s  territory; 
 
(o) 
“MIS” means the Project monitoring and information system referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Municipal Council” means a municipal council, composed mainly of 
representatives of communities and local organizations in a Municipality, as provided in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(q) 
“Municipality” means any municipality in the Borrower’s territory which 
is eligible to receive a Grant pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(r) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(iii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(s) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
October 30, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period of implementation of Parts B and 
C of the Project, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
- 4 -
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of implementation of Parts B and C of the Project; 
(t) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty-four million 
three hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($54,350,000) as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that the Guarantor has authorized the 
extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date authorized by the 
Guarantor. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
- 6 -
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through CAR with the assistance of the Municipal Councils and the Municipalities, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, administrative, 
agricultural, environmental, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions 
and/or recommendations of: 
(i) 
the Approved POA; 
(ii) 
the plan, furnished by the Borrower to the Bank on January 13, 
2005, for the participation of indigenous peoples in the carrying 
out of Community Subprojects with the assistance of FUNAI; and 
(iii) 
a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), 
which shall contain the policies and procedures for the carrying 
out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including, inter alia:
(A) the procedures for preparation, prioritization and approval of 
Community Subprojects, including environmental criteria and 
procedures for screening and management of such Subprojects, 
as provided in the environmental management plan furnished by 
the Borrower to the Bank on January 13, 2005, and the expected 
contribution of such Community Subprojects to a positive impact 
on the HDI; (B) the criteria for eligibility of Community 
Associations to participate in the Project; (C) the organization 
and membership of Municipal Councils; (D) the responsibilities 
and functions of the Municipal Councils in the selection of 
Community Associations and Community Subprojects; (E) the 
procedures and criteria for the provision of Area A Grants and 
Area B Grants, including, inter alia, the provision that Area A 
Grants shall be made in an aggregate amount equivalent to at 
least 40% of the total amount of the Grants; (F) the model form 
of Grant Agreements; (G) the Project procurement and financial 
management requirements and procedures; and (H) the 
- 7 -
indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation.  In 
case of any inconsistency between a provision of the Operational 
Manual and this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement will 
prevail. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause CAR, during Project implementation, to have 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank regarding the 
administration, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan with respect to Parts B and 
C of the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain a Project monitoring and information system in CAR, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the MIS), to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an on-going 
basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during 
Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review such report with the Bank promptly after its preparation, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
- 8 -
(a) 
by October 30 of each year during Project implementation, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank the proposed annual operating plans and budget, satisfactory to the 
Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding 
year and the respective sources of funding therefor; and 
 
(b) 
not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower’s budget by its 
Assembléia Legislativa (Legislative Assembly), furnish to the Bank the approved annual 
operating plans and respective budget (Approved POA) referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each year in question. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of implementing Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
 (a) 
after having selected a Community Subproject, enter into a Grant 
Agreement with a Community Association, in accordance with the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(b) 
for those Community Subprojects estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $50,000, request Bank’s prior review and approval. 
Section 3.07.  Not later than 60 days after the date of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of 
an information campaign to disseminate information about the Project, including, inter 
alia, the guidelines for participation of Community Associations in the Project. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, as part of the MIS in CAR, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of  statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
- 10 -
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (the 
FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely: that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual. 
- 11 -
Section 5.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Loan has been duly registered by 
the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
Section 5.03. 
The date March 14, 2006  is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Secretary of Planning of the Borrower  is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C.  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Companhia do Desenvolvimento e Ação Regional 
 
Secretaria de Planejamento 
 
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 250  
 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia 
 
41745-000 Salvador, Bahia 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3371-0015 
 
- 12 -
With copy to: 
 
Secretaria do Planejamento 
 
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 250  
 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia 
 
41745-000 Salvador, Bahia 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-3945 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda 
 
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 260 
 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia 
 
41745-000 Salvador, Bahia 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-8802 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brasilia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
By /s/ Paulo Ganem Souto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Grants:  
 
72.5% of the 
 
expenditures  
 
for goods, works and  
services for a 
Community Subproject  
 
(a) Area A Grants 
18,760,000 
 
(b) Area B Grants 
28,140,000 
 
(2) Consultants’ services, 
4,900,000 
 
100% 
 
training and goods under 
 
Parts B and C of 
 
the Project 
 
(3) Administrative costs: 
 
(a) incremental operational  
 
costs 
400,000 
 
       20%  
 
(b) Project supervision and 
600,000 
 
50% 
 
monitoring costs 
 
(4) Fee  
543,500 
Amount due  
 
under Section  
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
- 15 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(5) Premia for Interest 
-0- 
Amount due under 
 
Rate caps and 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated  
1,006,500 
 
 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
54,350,000 
 
======== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “administrative costs” means: (i) the operational costs (which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project); and (ii) the supervision and monitoring 
costs of the Project incurred by CAR under Part C of the Project (excluding expenditures 
for salaries and related benefits and for training); and 
(b) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower to finance reasonable transportation costs 
and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities, 
materials and equipment under the Project.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, but 
in no case prior to October 29, 2004. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods or works costing less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 per contract; (b) services of individual consultants and consulting 
firms costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 and $100,000 per contract, respectively; 
and (c) training and administrative costs. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
- 16 -
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
- 17 -
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 18 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $5,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 19 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month  period following the date of 
such reports. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase social and economic opportunities for 
the Municipalities’ rural poor by improving their access to basic, social and economic 
infrastructure, and thus contributing to the Borrower’s objective of increasing the HDI. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Community Subprojects
Financing of demand driven projects (the Community Subprojects) in about 407 
Municipalities consisting, inter alia, of socio-economic infrastructure, education, health, 
cultural, environmental and other productive investments aimed at raising the Borrower’s 
HDI, such investments to be identified by the relevant Community Associations.   
Part B: Institutional Development
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for Community Associations to 
support, inter alia, organization and strengthening of such Associations, identification, 
preparation, and operation of Community Subprojects, and maintenance of the investments 
under such Community Subprojects. 
2. 
Carrying out of capacity-building programs for Municipal Councils on 
responsibilities outlined in the Operational Manual, including assessment and supervision 
of Community Associations, participatory planning and the financial management of 
Community Subprojects, and environmental management of small Community 
Subprojects. 
3. 
Provision of training and technical assistance to the staff of CAR on technical 
matters regarding preparation, execution and operation of Community Subprojects, 
including development of standard project designs, monitoring techniques and financial 
management. 
4. 
Provision of training to technical staff of public and private entities associated with 
Project implementation on technical matters regarding preparation, execution and operation 
of Community Subprojects, including development of standard project designs, monitoring 
techniques and financial management. 
- 21 -
5. 
Carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Community 
Associations and other relevant agencies of the Borrower to exchange views and 
disseminate information and experience with respect to the carrying out of the Project 
among themselves and to facilitate integration of the Project’s activities with other 
programs of the Borrower and the Guarantor for poverty reduction. 
Part C: Project Administration
Support to the overall Project administration, supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2010. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  
(a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first 
Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2010 through November 15, 2021 
  
4.17% 
 
On May 15, 2022 
  
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, 
the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment 
Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 23 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph 
shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a 
separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, goods, works and services 
(other than consultants’ services) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions, using bidding 
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, in a standardized form for the Project: 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
in at least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil; 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; 
- 25 -
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Shopping
Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Shopping procedures, and a standard request for quotations acceptable to the 
Bank. 
2. 
Community Participation
Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) under Community 
Subprojects, costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual for community 
participation. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for assignments costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
- 26 -
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review: (a) each contract for 
goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) procured on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding; and (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided 
by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  In addition, with respect 
to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications and experience of all evaluated 
candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review 
by 
the 
Bank.
 
