CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7296-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Innovation for Competitiveness Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 23, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7296-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 2005, between the UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (the Borrower) represented by its signatory on page 13 of this Agreement, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, through CONACYT (as hereinafter defined), has 
delivered to the Bank a letter dated April 5, 2005, describing the Borrower’s Innovation 
for Competitiveness Program (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment 
to the execution of such Program; 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the 
Borrower’s execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of 
approximately ten (10) years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Program; and 
 
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
- 2 –
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on, or in 
respect of, any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
(c) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CONACYT” means Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia, the 
Borrower’s National Council for Science and Technology; 
 
(b) 
“CONACYT Scholarship Program” means a program established by 
CONACYT to provide financial support to eligible candidates pursuing graduate studies 
leading to specialization, doctoral and master degrees in national and foreign graduate 
programs; 
 
(c) 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the agreement to be entered into among 
the Borrower (through SHCP), CONACYT and NAFIN pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
- 3 –
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, services, 
grants and transfers referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Fideicomisos” means: (i) the trust funds created on December 17, 2002 
within CONACYT; (ii) the trust fund created on December 19, 2001 within Borrower’s 
Ministry of Economy; both with the objective to provide funding to, inter alia: (i) private 
sector companies and research centers to help transform scientific and technological 
developments into viable high value products and services; (ii) private sector companies 
to support innovation and technological development projects to strengthen their 
competitiveness; and (iii) any other trust fund created with the same above mentioned 
objective, as it may be agreed in the future between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(g) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators, set forth in the Operational 
Manual, for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project 
objectives; 
 
(i) 
“NAFIN” means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. a Mexican development 
bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan; 
 
(j) 
“NAFIN Venture Capital Fund” means the trust fund created on May 5, 
2003 (as amended on April 19, 2004), within NAFIN with the objective to promote 
venture capital financing of technology-based start-up companies or of technology-based 
new business lines in companies already established; and any other venture capital fund 
as it may be agreed in the future between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time; 
 
(l) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means CONACYT’s procurement plan, dated April 
13, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.03 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
- 4 –
(n) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit; and 
 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred and 
fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
services, grants and transfers required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
- 5 –
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10.  The Director  Internacional of NAFIN, and any person or persons 
whom he or she shall designate in writing are designated as representatives of the Borrower 
- 6 –
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
- 7 –
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall cause CONACYT (pursuant to the Contrato de Mandato)
to carry out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the 
Operational Manual and with appropriate administrative, management, and financial and 
social practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
CONACYT to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de 
Mandato) with NAFIN and CONACYT satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan, meaning that NAFIN agrees to, inter alia,
represent the Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of 
submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form 
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to 
the Borrower of Loan proceeds; and 
 
(ii) 
CONACYT agrees to carry out the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de 
Mandato.
(c) 
In case of any conflict among the terms of any Contrato de Mandato and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONACYT (pursuant to the Contrato de 
Mandato) to update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 months after the date of the 
preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
- 8 –
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONACYT (pursuant to the Contrato 
de Mandato) to issue an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter 
alia, specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, 
including: (i) the indicators for monitoring and evaluation of the Project (including the 
procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements thereof); (ii) the 
criteria for the selection, approval, implementation and monitoring of the provision of 
grants and transfers under Part A and Part B of the Project; (iii) a model to be used in the 
preparation of FMRs; and (iv) the Monitoring Indicators. 
 
(b) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with provision 
of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONACYT (pursuant to the Contrato 
de Mandato) to operate and maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a 
project coordination unit within CONACYT with structure, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank which shall include, inter alia:
(i) 
coordination of the implementation of the Project; 
 
(ii) 
coordination of the evaluation of the Project; 
 
(iii) 
preparation of the Operational Manual; 
 
(iv) 
processing of documentation required for disbursement of the 
Loan proceeds and for procurement of goods and services under 
the Project; and 
 
(v) 
preparation of the financial statements and FMRs, and 
maintenance of the records and accounts referred to in Article IV 
of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONACYT (pursuant to the Contrato de 
Mandato) to: 
 
(i) 
ensure that the PCU is at all times staffed with at least a Project 
manager, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a procurement 
specialist and a financial management specialist, all with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, operating 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and selected in 
accordance with competitive and transparent procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that the PCU is provided with adequate facilities, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out its responsibilities; and 
- 9 –
(iii) 
agree with the Bank on any substitution of the PCU staff referred 
above, prior to such substitution. 
 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, or shall cause CONACYT (pursuant to the 
Contrato de Mandato) to: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause CONACYT (pursuant to the Contrato de 
Mandato) to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, for each year during the implementation of the Project, semi-annual reports 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities (including the status of 
the procurement and disbursements under the Project) performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the execution of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of each said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank and NAFIN, by August 31 and February 28 of each 
year during the implementation of the Project or such later date as the Bank shall request, 
each report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.08. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Part B.6 (a) of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, if the Bank determines at any time, through regular Project 
supervision and auditing, that: (a) an amount of the Loan, disbursed pursuant to 
Categories (4) and (5) in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, was not 
used to finance the grants under Part A or Part B of the Project, as the case may be; or (b) 
the recipients of said grants shall not have used the funds from said grants for purposes of 
- 10 –
the Project in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; the Borrower shall, or shall 
cause CONACYT (pursuant to the Contrato de Mandato) to: (a) furnish to the Bank 
additional evidence, as the Bank may request,  to justify the use of said amount of the 
Loan; or (b) refund to the Bank the corresponding portion of the Loan for inclusion in the 
Loan Account. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONACYT, through the PCU, to 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONACYT to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
- 11 –
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause 
CONACYT, through the PCU, to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that, either CONACYT or NAFIN shall 
have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Contrato de Mandato.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 5.01 of 
- 12 –
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 90 calendar days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the 
parties thereto. 
 
Section 6.02. The date December 22, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Titular 
de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-555-228-1156 
 
- 13 –
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 14 –
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Francisco Gil Díaz 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
- 15 –
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars
to be financed
(1) 
Goods  
1,010,000 
90% 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services 
8,090,000 
75% 
 
(3) 
Training 
1,160,000 
90% 
 
(4) 
Grants provided by  
176,510,000 
75% of the  
 
CONACYT pursuant to  
 
amounts  
 
Parts A.1 and A.5 of  
 
disbursed by 
 
the Project and Scholarship  
 
CONACYT in the 
 
grants provided by   
 
form of such 
 
CONACYT pursuant to 
 
grants 
 
Part B of the Project 
 
(5) 
Transfers made by CONACYT 
36,530,000 
75% of the  
 
to Fideicomisos to fund grant 
 
amounts so 
 
programs covered by Parts 
 
transferred by 
 
A.2, A.3, and A.4 of the 
 
CONACYT 
 
Project  
 
 
 
(6) 
Operating costs 
450,000 
90% 
 
(7) 
Front-end fee 
1,250,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
- 16 –
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars
to be financed
(8) 
Premia for Interest 
 
Amounts due under 
 
Rate Caps 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of this 
 
and Interest Rate 
 
Agreement 
 
Collars 
 
 
(9) 
Unallocated 
25,000,000 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
250,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Operating costs” means the reasonable costs of salaries, 
communications, office supply, small refurbishing (as necessary), travel and per diem 
directly related to the performance of the Project activities, which would not have been 
incurred absent the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Training” means the reasonable non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities 
(including workshops, conferences and seminars) under the Project, including travel 
costs, per diem of trainers, trainees, facilitators and stakeholders, and training materials. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $25,000,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 11, 
2005. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
consultant’s services, training and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
- 17 –
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, cause NAFIN to open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account on behalf of the Borrower, either: in (i) the 
Borrower’s Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) in NAFIN 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment; or (iii) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
- 18 –
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 19 –
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 20 –
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
- 21 –
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s efforts to improve the 
competitiveness of its economy through: (a) strengthening CONACYT’s institutional 
capacity; and (b) supporting CONACYT’s existing grant and scholarship programs 
designed to increase the innovative capacity of the Borrower’s private sector, accelerate 
advanced human capital formation, and increase the international integration of the 
Borrower’s innovation system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
 
Part A: Business Innovation Promotion
Supporting the following CONACYT funding programs for business innovation 
and promotion, including, linkages with the private sector, through: 
 
1. 
provision of grants to public research centers (consortia and research 
networks) to promote linkages with groups of enterprises with existing research and 
development absorption capacity; 
 
2. 
provision of grants to support the NAFIN Venture Capital Fund; 
 
3. 
provision of grants to private sector companies and public research 
centers to help transform scientific and technological developments into viable high value 
products and services; 
 
4. 
provision of grants to private sector companies to support innovation and 
technological development projects that would strengthen the competitiveness of said 
companies; and 
 
5. 
provision of grants to eligible graduates of master and doctoral programs 
to promote their insertion in the Borrower’s labor market. 
 
Part B: Scholarships
Provision of scholarship grants to support the CONACYT Scholarship Program. 
 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment (as necessary) to 
strengthen CONACYT’s capacity to, inter alia: 
- 22 –
1. 
support policy development in the areas of science, technology and 
innovation; 
 
2. 
establish a comprehensive information, monitoring and evaluation 
system; 
 
3. 
design and implement a public information campaign to disseminate 
CONACYT’s programs; and 
 
4. 
strengthen CONACYT and the PCU to assist in the carrying out the 
Project. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
 
- 23 –
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2010 
 
through May 15, 2020 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
- 24 –
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 25 –
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Shopping.
Goods procured by the Borrower’s public institutions 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
2. 
Commercial Practices. Goods procured by the Borrower’s private sector 
entities, estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 per 
contract, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
 
- 26 –
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Individual Consultants.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
of the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
wb77786 
M:\MEXICO\925-Innovation for Competitiveness APL\925-Innovation for Competitiveness Loan A 
(Netotiated April 14 revised Amort Schedule Aug 24).doc 
09/21/2005 
12:01:00 
PM
 
