CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4774-KZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Agricultural Competitiveness Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 26, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
22
LOAN NUMBER 4774-KZ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, 
dated 
August 
26, 
2005, 
between 
REPUBLIC 
OF 
KAZAKHSTAN 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CC” means the Coordination Center to be established by the Borrower 
referred to in Part D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“CGS” means the Competitive Grant Scheme to be established by the 
Borrower pursuant to the Operational Manual (hereinafter defined) for purposes of Parts 
A.2 (iii), B.2 and C.1 (iii) and C.2 (iii) of the Project;  
 
(c) 
“CGS Agent” means a financial institution, acceptable to the Bank, 
which will act as an agent for the Borrower under the CGS; 
 
- 2 -
(d) 
“CGS Agent Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CGS Agent pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the CGS Agent Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Guidelines” means the guidelines on the safe operation 
of agricultural laboratories and environmental screening of Sub-project(s) (hereinafter 
defined), which are a part of the Operational Manual;   
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“GB” means the Governing Board to be established by the Borrower 
referred to in Part D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Grant” means  a competitive Grant made or proposed to be made by the 
CGS Agent under CGS under Parts A.2 (iii), B.2, C.1 (iii) and C.2 (iii) of the Project out 
of the proceeds of the Loan and/or the Republican Budget of the Borrower; 
 
(i) 
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the  
CGS Agent and each Grant recipient referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Part B of  
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
 
(j) 
“MoA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and includes any 
successor or successors thereto; 
 
(k) 
“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and includes any 
successor or successors thereto; 
 
(l) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower for 
the operation of the CGS;  
 
(m) 
“Pest Management Plan” means a plan on the safe handling, use and 
disposal of pesticides used in the implementation of Sub-project(s) prepared by the 
Borrower; 
 
(n) 
“PIP” means the project implementation plan setting forth procedures for 
implementation of the Project, as such plan may be amended from time to time upon 
agreement with the Borrower and the Bank;  
 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
February 18, 2005 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
- 3 -
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(q) 
“Sub-project(s)” means the sub-project(s) selected and approved under 
CGS in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and 
financed in part by a Grant. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-four 
million Dollars ($24,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank, shall so agree, to be paid) by 
the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a recipient of a Grant to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for implementation of a Sub-
project under Parts A.2 (iii), B.2, C.1 (iii) and C.2 (iii) of the Project in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be 
payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
- 4 -
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency 
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
- 5 -
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MoA with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
MoA, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall make available for the purposes of the carrying out of the 
Project, including Parts A.2 (iii), B.2, C.1 (iii) and C.2 (iii) and technical assistance 
referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, an amount not exceeding forty six million 
eight hundred thousand Dollars ($46,800,000) to be utilized under the terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Bank and the Borrower otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall, for purposes of Parts A.2 (iii), B.2, C.1 (iii) and C.2 (iii) of the Project: 
(a) 
make available under the CGS Agent Agreement the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the proceeds the Republican Budget of the Borrower 
allocated for Grants to the CGS Agent for transferring to Grant recipients for Sub-
projects selected in accordance with the procedures, eligibility criteria, and on terms and 
- 6 -
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, which shall be satisfactory to the Bank, 
and shall include, without limitation, reporting, procurement, suspension and termination 
provisions.  
(b) 
exercise its rights under the CGS Agent Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the CGS Agent Agreement or 
any provision thereof without prior approval of the Bank. 
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of:  
(i) the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; and (ii) selection and employment of consultant’s services required for the 
Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designated to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MoA, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MoA, shall: 
- 7 -
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
MoA, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 7 (b) of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
- 8 -
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
- 9 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
33 Pobedy Street 
 
Astana 
 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
264126 (FILIN)  
(7) (3172) 717762 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By /s/ Arman Dunaev 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Loup Brefort 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
Maximum % of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Works 
5,300,000 
70%  
 
(2) 
Goods 
6,700,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 84% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Grants 
11,000,000 
100% of amounts  
 
disbursed 
 
(4) 
Unallocated 
1,000,000
TOTAL 
24,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and 
- 11 -
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) under Category (3) in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless: (i) the GB 
and the CC have been established by the Borrower; (ii) the PIP and the Operational 
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, have been adopted by the Borrower in accordance with 
legislation of the Borrower; and (iii) the Grant has been made in accordance with criteria 
and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; and (c) any expenditures under any 
Category in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank has received payment in full 
of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract; and (c) Grants, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to increase the competitiveness of the 
agricultural sector by facilitating access to markets and knowledge by: (i) improving the 
quality and safety of agricultural products, access to information and market efficiency; 
and (ii) increasing the quality, quantity and relevance of public and private investments in 
applied agricultural research and extension and knowledge transfer. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Quality and Safety Management of Agricultural Products
1. 
Establishing a group of experts responsible for harmonization of regulations and 
standards on quality and safety of agricultural products and provision of technical 
assistance and training to public and private sector on food safety regulations and 
standards. 
 
2. 
Strengthening quality and safety of food and agricultural products monitoring by: 
(i) upgrading the existing public Veterinarian Testing Center (microbiology, radiology, 
toxicology, biochemistry) and Plant Protection Testing Center (entomology, 
phytopathology, virology, herbology and microbiology), including construction of a new 
building for laboratory and provision of equipment and training; (ii) improving seeds and 
input testing laboratories; (iii) training and provision of Grants through CGS for selected 
Sub-projects submitted by laboratories and quality testing centers. 
 
Part B: Agricultural Marketing
1. 
Strengthening market information system by: (i) adding quality classifications 
and price differentials to the existing product price lists; (ii) increasing quality and 
frequency of price information, including information on perishable agricultural products; 
(iii) adding price information with traded quantities; (iv) making web page information 
accessible to farmers and traders through newspapers, radios, TVs, cellular phones and 
other suitable medium; (v) information use monitoring, (vi) enhancing analytical capacity 
of public and private actors, and (vii) training of private companies and associations  on 
collection, processing and analysis of data, its use, and development of market 
information system. 
 
2. 
Provision of Grants through CGS for Sub-projects in market-oriented 
infrastructure, including but not limited to milk collection points, slaughter houses, 
storages, distribution networks, and image enhancement to setting up and/or developing 
marketing associations or partnerships. 
- 13 -
Part C: Applied Agricultural Research and Extension
1. 
Strengthening applied agricultural research by: (i) providing technical assistance 
to design, implement and monitor a plan to reorganize agricultural research system; 
(ii) financing an advance education for young scientists; and (iii) providing Grants 
through CGS for selected applied agricultural research Sub-projects. 
 
2. 
Strengthening agricultural extension by: (i) developing a Government funded 
system  for provision of extension services to agricultural entities, including selection and 
output oriented monitoring of extension agents; (ii) training and certifying extension 
agents; and (iii) providing Grants through CGS for agricultural extension Sub-projects. 
 
Part D: Institutional Development and Agricultural Policy
1. 
Establishing the GB consisting of representatives from relevant ministries and 
agencies of the Borrower as well as private sector and agricultural associations which 
will be responsible for developing policy guidelines for the Project. 
 
2. 
Establishing the CC responsible for the Project management and implementation 
of policy guidelines approved by GB set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual 
and PIP, and administration of CGS.  
 
3. 
Establishing a roster of independent technical reviewers comprising of national 
and international experts which will be responsible for the evaluation of Sub-project 
proposals in: (i) laboratories and quality improvement plans; (ii) market driven 
infrastructure; (iii) applied agricultural research; and (iv) agricultural extension in 
accordance with criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.  
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to carry out the Project evaluation.  
 
5. 
Strengthening capacity of public sector to analyze, monitor and develop 
agricultural policies by establishing group of experts on agricultural policy responsible 
for preparing proposals and recommendations on agricultural competitiveness, including 
fisheries, and  training and study tours for staff of the MoA. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 30, 2010.  
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars) 1
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning October 15, 2010 
  
 
 
through April 15, 2022                    
1,000,000.000  
 
1 The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule, except for consultants’ services for the development of a Government funded 
system for provision of  extension services under Part C.2 (i) of the Project to be financed 
by the Republican Budget of the Borrower which will be procured in accordance with the 
Borrower’s Law on Procurement dated May 16, 2002 as amended. The Borrower may 
procure local consultants to do preparatory work for the Project during the period 
between signing of this Agreement and declaring it effective based on its Law on 
Procurement.  
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding. 
- 16 -
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Community Participation. Goods, works and services required to be financed by 
Grants may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with the 
Operational Manual. 
4. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
4. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
- 17 -
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms and individual consultants, irrespective of the value of 
the contract, the terms of references and draft contracts shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Part A: General
1. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a)  
carry out of the Project through MoA; 
 
(b)  
MoA shall maintain CC during the Project implementation with staff 
whose qualification and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank and resources 
adequate to enable it to effectively implement the Project; and 
 
(c) 
MoA shall ensure that CC shall be responsible for: (i) Project 
management, implementation, coordination and monitoring, including evaluation and 
reporting to the GB; (ii) preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan;  
(iii) management of the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; (iv) administration of CGS; (v) procurement of goods, works and services; 
(vi) maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging for the audit 
thereof; and (vii) preparation of an annual work program; and 
 
 
(d)   
MoA shall have the overall responsibility for accounting, financial 
reporting and management, and preparing of FMRs for the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MoA, shall take all necessary measures to implement the 
Project in accordance with PIP and it shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision of the PIP without prior approval of the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MoA, shall take all necessary measures to implement 
Parts A.2 (iii), B.2 and C.1 (iii) and C.2 (iii) of the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and it shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of 
the Operational Manual without prior approval of the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through MoA, shall maintain during the Project implementation a 
GB referred to in Part D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement with the composition and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through MoA, shall, not later than one month after the Project 
effectiveness, establish and, thereafter maintain during the Project implementation a 
roster of independent technical reviewers referred to in Part D.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement with the composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
6. 
The Borrower, through CC: (a) shall provide to the Bank, by April 1 of each 
year, throughout the execution of the Project, an annual evaluation report based on a 
survey carried out each year, except for the first year, on the Project implementation, in 
- 19 -
such scope and such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, including a draft annual 
Project plan for the following year; and (b) shall provide to the Bank by March 1 and by 
September 1 of each year, throughout the execution of the Project, a semiannual Project 
monitoring report to assess the efficiency of the Project. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about April 1, 2008, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by July 1, 2008 or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Part B: Grants under Parts A.2 (iii), B.2, C.1(iii) and C.2(iii) of the Project
1. 
The Borrower, through MoA, shall ensure: 
 
(a) 
that Sub-project proposals for Grants in laboratories and quality 
improvement plans, market oriented infrastructure, applied agricultural research and 
agricultural extension under Part A.2 (iii), B.2, C.1 (iii) and C.2 (iii) of the Project shall 
be selected, appraised, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the principles, 
procedures and criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, the Environmental Guidelines 
and the Pest Management Plan; 
 
(b) 
that the Bank shall have the right to review the Sub-project proposals for 
awarding Grants at any time during the execution of the Project; in case of disagreement 
on the justification applied for approval or rejection of the Sub-project proposals, the 
Bank shall have the right to require a modification of selection results; and  
 
(c) 
that the award of the Grant shall be made by the CGS Agent in 
accordance with the standard Grant Agreement form included in the Operational Manual, 
whereby: (i) the Sub-projects proposals for the carrying out of which the Grant is 
awarded is adequately described; (ii) the Grant recipient shall be required to carry out 
- 20 -
such Sub-project proposals as described and within the budgetary limits set forth in the 
Grant Agreement and to procure goods and services required for the carrying out of the 
Sub-project proposals in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Grant 
Agreement; (iii) the amount of each Grant shall be based upon estimated cost of goods, 
works and services and operating costs that will be required for the Sub-project, and shall 
not exceed the limit of each Grant set forth in the Operational Manual; and (iv) the 
purpose and use of the Sub-project and cost sharing to be made by the Grant recipient 
with respect to the financing of the Sub-project is in accordance with the requirements set 
forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MoA, shall ensure that the CGS Agent Agreement shall, 
inter alia, include, namely, that: (i) the proceeds of the Grant will be disbursed by the 
CGS Agent in a timely manner and in compliance with the terms and conditions and 
procedures referred to or set forth in the CGS Agent Agreement and the Operational 
Manual; (ii) the CGS Agent will make field visits to the Sub-project sites to verify the 
Sub-project implementation state and will submit its findings to the MoA and CC;  
(iii) CGS Agent will undertake all necessary actions and exercise all of its rights in the 
CGS Agent Agreement, including suspension or termination of the right of Grant 
recipients to use the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the Grant recipient to perform 
any of its obligation under the Grant Agreement; (iv) CGS Agent will be empowered, 
upon failure by the Grant recipient to carry out its obligations under the Grant 
Agreement, to terminate it with prior agreement of MoA, cease disbursement of the Grant 
provided thereunder and request other appropriate remedies available under the laws of 
the Borrower; (v) up to a maximum 30% of the Grant funds will be advanced to the CGS 
Agent into a treasury or commercial bank account to assure that the proceeds of the Grant 
are disbursed to the Grant recipients in a timely manner; and (vi) the CGS Agent will 
furnish to the MoA and CC documentation of expenditure in a period of sixty (60) days 
to assure that no Grant funds will be advanced for a period of longer than sixty (60) days.   
 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and works required for  the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  $7,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall  
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
- 22 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 23 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
