CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7339-TN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Water Supply Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIETE NATIONALE D’EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 5, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7339-TN  
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SOCIETE 
NATIONALE D”EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX (the 
Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Tunisia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan); and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08”. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
- 2 -
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Basic Legislation” means the Guarantor’s Law No. 68-22, dated  
July 1968, as amended and completed by the Guarantor’s Law No. 76-21, dated  
January 21, 1976, pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is operating 
as an industrial and commercial public institution; 
 
(b) 
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de 
Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law No. 58-90, dated 
September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(c) 
“Central Region” means the territory of the Guarantor that includes 
Jammel, Kalaa Kbira, Nassrallah, and Ouerdanine; 
 
(d) 
“EMP” 
means 
the 
Environmental 
Management 
Plan 
dated  
March 30, 2005, duly adopted by the Borrower, which assesses the environmental 
impacts and sets out the environmental mitigation and protection measures in respect of 
the carrying out of Parts A, B, and C of the Project, as well as the administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures, as such Plan 
may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank; 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” means each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Greater Tunis Region” means the territory of the Guarantor that 
includes Ghdir-el-Gollah, Ras Tabia, Mornag, Bir-el-Kassa, La Gazelle, and Borj Touil; 
 
(g) 
“Land Acquisition Plan” means the plan, dated June 10, 2005 and 
adopted by the Borrower, for the carrying out of land acquisition activities under Parts A 
and B of the Project, which Plan identifies the Project sites requiring land acquisition and 
sets forth the procedures to be followed in the carrying out of said activities, referred to in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Plan may be amended from time to 
time with the prior approval of the Bank; 
 
- 3 -
(h) 
“Northern Region” means the territory of the Guarantor that includes Ain 
Draham, Ghardimaou, and Rouhia-Jedliane-Sbiba; 
 
(i) 
“Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual furnished by the 
Borrower to the Bank on September 22, 2005 that sets forth the operational guidelines 
and procedures, and implementation and institutional arrangements, in respect of Project 
implementation activities and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
as such Manual maybe updated from time to time in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank; 
 
(j) 
“PIU” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Unit referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and established pursuant to a decision of the 
President/Director General of the Borrower dated September 23, 2005; and  
 
(k)  
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
June 22, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
period (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty one 
million euros (�31,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and any premium in 
respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2012, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
- 4 -
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions up to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
- 5 -
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, financial, public 
utility and technical practices, and environmental and social standards, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
- 6 -
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
- 7 -
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
such calendar semester. 
 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 2005, 
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than thirty percent (30%) of the annual 
average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for 
that year and the following fiscal years. 
 
(b) 
Before July 31 of each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next two (2) following fiscal years, and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review 
upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such 
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures, including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates (prices), in order to meet such 
requirements. 
 
- 8 -
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, 
consumer 
deposits 
and 
consumer 
contributions in aid of construction, net non-operating 
income and any reduction in working capital other than 
cash; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures. 
 
(ii) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(iii) 
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each Fiscal Year. 
 
(iv) 
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve (12) months including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-
paid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within 
the next Fiscal Year. 
 
(v) 
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
- 9 -
(vi) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of principal repayments (including sinking fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(vii) 
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations (excluding operations carried 
out on behalf of the Guarantor). 
 
(viii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain. for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 2005, a 
ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than one hundred 
percent (100 %). 
 
(b) 
Before July 31 of each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such 
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures, including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates, in order to meet such 
requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
and provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 2.5% per annum of the average current gross value 
of the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation, or other basis 
acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest, other charges on 
debt and taxes on the income. 
 
- 10 - 
 
(ii) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
 
(iii) 
The average current gross value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross 
value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation at the beginning 
and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of the 
Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated 
principal debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the 
Borrower including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a loan contractor 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debtor for the  
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument. 
 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; (excluding operations 
carried out on behalf of the Guarantor, internal works to be 
depreciated and bad debts to be written off); 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt. 
 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference  
between: 
 
- 11 - 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations such as revenues from financial placements; 
and 
 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above and 
financial investments. 
 
(v) 
The term “principal debt service requirements” means the 
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(vi) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the 
Borrower not earlier that twelve (12) months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and 
Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no event 
has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of the 
Borrower. 
 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt; or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Management and Operations of the Borrower 
 
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, economic, engineering, financial, public utility and technical practices, 
and environmental and social standards under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management, who is assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility 
practices; and 
- 12 - 
 
(c) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Basic Legislation shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Termination 
 
Section 7.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 8.01. The President/Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 13 - 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Societe Nationale d’Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux 
Avenue Sliman Ben Slimane 
 
El-Manar 
Tunis - 2092 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Cable address  
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
SONEDE  
 
 
 
 
 
216.71.871.000 
Tunis 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tunis, Republic of Tunisia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
 
    /s/ Theodore Ahlers 
Authorized Representative 
 
SOCIETE NATIONALE D’EXPLOITATION ET DE 
 DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX 
 
By 
 
/s/ Mohamed Ali Khouadja 
Authorized Representative 
- 14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Euros)
% of
Expenditures 
To be Financed
(1) 
 
Treatment Works 
(Turnkey, design-build) 
 
9,200,000 
 
80% 
 
(2) 
 
Works 
 
9,800,000 
 
80% 
 
(3) 
 
Goods 
 
10,000,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, and 
80% of local 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
 
Technical Assistance 
and training 
 
1,922,500 
 
96% 
 
(5) 
 
Front-end Fee 
 
77,500  
 
(6) 
 
Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest 
Rate Collars 
 
0
__________ 
 
Amount due under 
Section 2.09(c) of 
this Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
  31,000,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and 
 
- 15 - 
 
(c) 
the term “treatment works” means civil works and equipment associated 
with the water treatment facility for the production of potable water under Part A of the 
Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding four million Euros  
(�4,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 9, 2005. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $1,500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $1,500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
- 16 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) improving the 
quality of the water supply and service delivery infrastructure in the Greater Tunis, 
Northern and Central Regions of Tunisia; and (b) enhancing its operational and 
management functions. 
 
Part A: Improvements to the Greater Tunis Region Water Supply System
Carrying out civil works and provision of equipment and technical assistance to 
strengthen  the Greater Tunis Region water supply system through improvements to the 
water treatment, transmission, and distribution infrastructure, including: 
 
(1) 
expansion and improvement works on the water treatment plant in Ghdir 
El Golla to increase its water and sludge treatment and storage 
capacities; 
 
(2) 
rehabilitation of the water supply transmission pipeline between Ghdir El 
Golla and Ras Tabia; 
 
(3) 
upgrading the distribution network and construction of a water pumping 
station with associated electromechanical equipment in Mornag; 
 
(4) 
upgrading the distribution network, construction of a water pumping 
station with associated electromechanical equipment and the construction 
of a water storage tank in Borj Touil; 
 
(5) 
construction of a water storage tank in La Gazelle; and 
 
(6) 
construction of a water storage tank in each of Ghdir El Golla and Bir El 
Kassa. 
 
Part B: Improvements to the Water Supply Systems of Urban Centers of the 
Northern and Central Regions
Carrying out of civil works and provision of equipment and technical assistance 
to strengthen the Northern and Central Regions” water supply systems through the 
upgrading of water production, storage, transmission and distribution infrastructure, 
including: 
 
(1) 
construction of a water storage tank in Ain Draham; 
 
- 17 - 
 
(2) 
construction of a water storage tank, drilling of one new borehole, 
rehabilitation of an existing borehole and two borehole protection 
structures, and installation of associated electromechanical equipment in 
Ghardimaou; 
 
(3) 
construction of two water storage tanks, upgrading the water 
transmission network, and drilling of a borehole in Rouhia; 
 
(4) 
construction of a water storage tank, and retrofitting an existing borehole 
with a new power supply and electrometrical systems in Nasrallah;  
 
(5) 
upgrading the distribution network in Kalaa Kbira; 
 
(6) 
construction of a pumping station, including the provision of associated 
power supply and electromechanical equipment, and upgrading the 
distribution network in Jammel; and 
 
(7) 
construction of a water storage tank and a pressure regulation tank in 
Ouerdanine. 
 
Part C: Management Capacity Building
Carrying out of technical and managerial studies and provision of technical 
assistance and training, decision-making tools, and establishment of management 
information systems to enhance the Borrower’s management, planning and service 
performance, including:  
 
1. 
Corporate Plan and Organizational Audit: Provision of technical assistance to 
sustain the Borrower’s market competitiveness through focused management capacity 
building activities, including:  
 
(a) 
the carrying out of a strategic planning exercise to identify water supply 
market trends and develop an associated corporate plan; and 
 
(b) 
the carrying out of an organizational and human resources audit. 
 
2. 
Financial Simulation Model: Provision of technical assistance to optimize the 
Borrower’s investment and borrowing programs, tariff adjustment rationales, and 
performance management goals through the development of a financial simulation 
model. 
 
3. 
Customer Service Information System: Provision of technical assistance, 
computer software, and associated hardware to improve the management of the customer 
relations and billing activities of the Borrower. 
 
- 18 - 
 
4. 
Human Resources Management Information System: Provision of technical 
assistance and computer software to facilitate the Borrower’s efficient management of 
labor resources and costs. 
 
5. 
Monitoring of EMP: Provision of technical assistance and training to assist the 
Borrower in carrying out the EMP. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2011. 
 
- 19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date by: (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred 
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
March 15, 2011 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2011 
4.17% 
 
March 15, 2012 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2012 
4.17%  
 
March 15, 2013 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2013 
4.17% 
 
March 15, 2014 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2014 
4.17%  
 
March 15, 2015 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2015 
4.17% 
 
March 15, 2016 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2016 
4.17%  
 
March 15, 2017 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2017 
4.17% 
 
March 15, 2018 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2018 
4.17%  
 
 
March 15, 2019 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2019 
4.17%  
 
March 15, 2020 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2020 
4.17% 
 
March 15, 2021 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2021 
4.17%  
 
March 15, 2022 
4.17% 
 
September 15, 2022 
4.09%  
 
- 20 - 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such  
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
- 21 - 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 22 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured by 
contractors in the territory of the Guarantor. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. Goods estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Bank. Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: 
 
(i) 
Bids are advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation.  
 
(ii) 
The bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award   
criteria and bidder qualification criteria. 
 
- 23 - 
 
(iii) 
Bidders are given adequate response time to prepare and submit 
bids four (4) weeks minimum. 
 
(iv) 
Bids may be submitted, at the bidder’s option, in person or by 
courier service. 
 
(v) 
Technical and financial bids are publicly and simultaneously 
opened. 
 
(vi) 
Bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in 
the bid documents and quantified in monetary terms and contract 
area awarded to the qualified bidder with the lowest evaluated 
responsive bid. 
 
(vii) No eligible bidder is excluded from participation. 
 
(viii) Government owned enterprises in the Recipient’s country may 
participate only if they can establish that they: (a) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (b) operate under commercial law; and (c) 
are not dependent agencies of the Recipient or of any other entity 
that is a dependant of the Recipient. 
 
(ix) No domestic preference is applicable to domestic bids. 
 
(x) 
No foreign bidder is forced to submit a bid in association with 
domestic firms as a condition for bidding. 
 
(xi) 
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding 
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding 
Procurement must be submitted to, and found acceptable by, the 
Bank. 
 
(xii) The procedures shall include publication of evaluation results and 
the details of the contract awarded, and provisions for bidders to 
protest. 
 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Goods which are specialized or of a proprietary nature 
costing less than $50,000 may, with Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
- 24 - 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a single-source basis. 
 
For purposes of paragraph 2.07 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 25 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Project Coordination and Implementation
1. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, maintain the PIU 
under terms of reference and with a composition satisfactory to the Bank. The PIU shall 
be responsible for overall Project oversight, supervision, monitoring, and coordination. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is at all times: (i) staffed with key personnel to 
carry out its operations, including a Project Manager who is responsible for the day-to-
day operations of the PIU; engineers; and specialists in financial management, and 
procurement; and (ii) provided with adequate resources and suitably qualified and 
experienced staff in adequate numbers. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
ensure that: 
 
(i) 
its Directorate for Engineering Studies is vested with the 
responsibility of preparing and supervising the preparation of 
the infrastructure designs associated with Parts A and B  of the 
Project; 
 
(ii) 
its Directorate of Construction is vested with the responsibility 
of carrying out the civil works under Parts A and B of the 
Project; 
 
(iii) 
its General Studies Directorate is vested with the responsibility 
of supervising the carrying out of the corporate plan study 
under Part C of the Project; 
 
(iv) 
its Directorate of Organization is vested with the responsibility 
of supervising the organizational and human resources audit 
under Part C of the Project; 
 
(v) 
its Directorate of Finance and Accounting is vested with the 
responsibility of supervising the development of the financial 
simulation model under Part C of the Project; 
 
(vi) 
its Directorate of Operations and Directorate of Information 
Systems are jointly vested with the responsibility of the 
carrying out of activities under Part C of the Project; and 
- 26 - 
 
(vii) 
its Directorate of Human Resources and Directorate of 
Information Systems are jointly vested with the responsibility 
of the carrying out of activities under Part C of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
cause each of said Directorates to carry out its respective responsibilities 
consistent with this Agreement, all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Operations Manual
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
all Project activities are carried out in accordance with the Operations 
Manual; and  
 
(b) 
the Operations Manual, or any portions thereof, shall not be revised, 
amended, abrogated, repealed, or deviated from without the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Corporate Plan and Organizational Audit
4. 
For purposes of carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
by November 1, 2008, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its 
review and comments, a corporate plan that includes an 
assessment of the Borrower’s future market trends and 
appropriate medium- to long-range action plans all aimed at 
maintaining the Borrower’s market competitiveness; and 
 
(ii) 
immediately thereafter, carry out a program of actions to 
commence the implementation of said plans, taking into account 
the Bank’s comments thereon; and 
 
(b) 
(i) 
by April 30, 2008, carry out an audit of the Borrower’s 
organization and human resource management; and  
 
(ii) 
based upon said audit, by October 31, 2009, prepare and furnish 
to the Bank for its review and comments, a management action 
plan, and immediately thereafter carry out said plan, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
 
Financial Simulation Model
5. 
For purposes of Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank for its review and comments by December 31, 2008, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, a financial simulation model, and immediately thereafter carry 
- 27 - 
 
out a program of actions consistent with said model, taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon. 
 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
6. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
all works and land acquisition activities are carried out in 
accordance with the EMP  or  the Land Acquisition Plan, as the 
case may be, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
 
(ii) 
the EMP and the Land Acquisition Plan shall not be amended, 
revised, or abrogated without the prior approval of the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
(i) 
prior to the carrying out of any Project activities not identified, 
assessed, nor included in the EMP, such activities shall be 
subject to an environmental impact study, under terms of 
reference and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and  
 
(ii) 
such activities included in said environmental impact study shall 
be carried out in accordance with an environmental management 
plan, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Mid-Term review, Project Monitoring and Evaluation
7. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate project performance on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed 
upon with the Bank; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about April 30, 2009,  a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2009, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this paragraph 7, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the 
said 
report 
and 
the 
Bank’s 
views 
on 
the 
matter.
- 28 - 
 
