CONFORMED COPY             
 
LOAN NUMBER 4786 IND 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Sector Development Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 20, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4786 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) 
the Borrower intends to contract from Japan a grant under the Policy and 
Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) to be administered by the Bank, in an 
amount equivalent to five million United States dollars (US$5,000,000) (hereinafter, the 
PHRD Grant) to assist in financing Part A of the Project, on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter, 
the PHRD Grant Agreement); 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the following modification (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is 
amended by replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Additional Participating ULG” means a Kabupaten or Kota, other than a 
Participating ULG, selected by the Borrower for participation in Parts A.1 and B of the 
Project in accordance with the eligibility and selection criteria set forth in the Project 
- 2 -
Management Manual and in accordance with paragraph 5 of  Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.  
(b) 
“Additional Sub-project ”means a project carried out or to be carried out 
by an Additional Participating ULG under Part B of the Project as part of its investment 
plan included in its PJM, which project is eligible for financing in part out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-project Loan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
“APBD” means the budget of a local government of the Borrower. 
(d) 
“BAPPENAS” means the Borrower’s National Development Planning  
Agency, and any successor thereto.  
(e) 
“Bupati” means the chief executive of a Kabupaten. 
(f) 
 “CPMU” means the project unit established and maintained within the 
Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development of MPW in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, responsible for the overall 
management and coordination of the Project. 
(g) 
“DPRD” means the local legislative assembly of a Kabupaten or a Kota. 
(h) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
Part  B of the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, and “Displaced Persons” means, 
collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
(i) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(j) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(l) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31. 
- 3 -
(m) 
“Isolated Vulnerable Persons” means those social groups in Indonesia 
that have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being 
disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any part thereof. 
 (n) 
“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative division of the 
Borrower. 
(o) 
“Kepmen 
35” 
means 
the 
Borrower’s 
Decree 
MOF-
No.35/KMK.072/2002 or any successor legislation or decree thereto setting forth 
provisions for the on-lending and on-granting of funds borrowed by, or granted to, the 
Borrower from official development assistance sources. 
(p) 
“MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(q) 
“Kota” means a municipality, an administrative division of the Borrower. 
(r) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and any successor 
thereto. 
(s) 
“IMSC” means the inter-ministerial steering committee established 
pursuant to Ministerial Decree 257/M.PN/05/2003 of the Minister of BAPPENAS, 
responsible for providing overall project supervision and policy coordination and 
guidance to achieve the objective of improving urban services in Participating ULGs. 
(t) 
“Participating ULGs” means Kabupaten Musi Banyuasin, Kabupaten 
Manokwari, Kabupaten Parigi Muotong, Kabupaten Sidendreng Rappang, Kabupaten 
Sleman, Kota Blitar, Kota Cimahi, Kota Depok, Kota Palu, Kota Parepare, Kota Palopo, 
Kota Semarang and Kota Yogyakarta, and “Participating ULG” means any one of said 
Participating ULGs.  
(u) 
“PIUs” means the project implementation units, established in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and 
pursuant to decrees of a Bupati/Walikota of each Participating ULG, within those local 
government departments assigned with responsibility for carrying out Project 
implementation activities in accordance with the provisions of the Project Management 
Manual. 
(v) 
“PJM “means a Program Jangka Menengah, the five-year development 
program prepared by a Participating ULG and an Additional ULG through a participatory 
process, including local stakeholders, pursuant to the urban development strategy 
prepared by such Participating ULG or Additional ULG, as the case may be, under Part 
A.1 of the Project, consisting of an urban reform agenda, a capacity building plan, and an 
investment plan. 
- 4 -
(w) 
“PMU” means the Kabupaten/Kota level project management units 
established within a Participating ULG, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and pursuant to a decree of the Bupati/Walikota, 
responsible for the coordination and management of Project implementation at the 
Kabupaten/Kota level in accordance with the provisions of the Project Management 
Manual. 
(x) 
“PPMU” means the Province-level project management unit established 
within the provincial local government of each of the PPMU Provinces in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and pursuant to a 
decree of the Governor thereof, responsible for the coordination and management of 
Project implementation at the provincial level in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Management Manual. 
(y) 
“PPMU Provinces” means the Borrower’s provinces of Central Sulawesi, 
South Sulawesi, South Sumatra and West Java and the Borrower’s Special Province of 
Yogyakarta, in each of which a PPMU is to be established in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3 to Schedule 5 to this Agreement and pursuant to a decree of the 
Governor thereof. 
(z) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, conveyed 
in the letter no. HL.02.02.DK/144 dated April 11, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) 
month period of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 
eighteen (18) month periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 (aa) 
“Project Management Manual” means the manual setting forth the 
project management procedures to be followed in the implementation of the Project, 
adopted by the IMSC pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01(b) of, and paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to, this Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with 
the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(bb) 
“Qualifying Urban Reform Action Plan” means an urban reform action 
plan prepared by: (i) a Participating ULG in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
Project Management Manual; or (ii) an Additional ULG in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, in each case consisting of a 
plan for reforms in public procurement, financial management and public decision-
making and information disclosure policies and processes.  
(cc) 
 “Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in paragraph 4 of Part A of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 (dd) 
“Safeguards Framework” means the  framework adopted by the 
Borrower through MPW pursuant to Letter No. HL.0202.DK/144 of March 31, 2005, of 
- 5 -
the Director General of Urban and Rural Development, MPW, on the Implementation of 
the Safeguards Framework for the Urban Sector Development and Reform Project, 
setting forth the measures and actions to be taken during the implementation of Part B of 
the Project: (i) to eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts or to reduce such 
impacts to acceptable levels; (ii) to provide compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
assistance to Displaced Persons; and (iii) for: (A) the informed involvement of Isolated 
Vulnerable People, through a process of informed participation, in the design and 
implementation of each Sub-project to be, or being, carried out in a location in which 
such people reside or use for their livelihood; and (B) designing and implementing 
mitigation measures on possible impacts of the Project on Isolated Vulnerable People 
which are socially and culturally acceptable to them, as such framework may be amended 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(ee) 
“Safeguards Plans” means the plans identified in Part C of the Annex to 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and prepared in accordance with the provisions of the 
Safeguards Framework, as such plans may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “Safeguard Plan” means any one of said Safeguard Plans. 
(ff) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
(gg) 
 “Sub-project Loan” means a loan made or to be made available by the 
Borrower through MOF out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Participating ULG or an 
Additional Participating ULG to finance part of the cost of a Sub-project or an Additional 
Sub-project, as the case may be, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement and of the Annex to said Schedule 5. 
(hh) 
“Sub-project Loan Agreement” means an agreement entered into 
between the Borrower through MOF and a Participating ULG or an Additional 
Participating ULG for the purposes of providing a Sub-project Loan to finance part of the 
costs of a Sub-project or an Additional Sub-project, as the case may be, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall include the terms 
and conditions set out in paragraph 2 of Part A of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(ii) 
 “Sub-project” means a project carried out or to be carried out by a 
Participating ULG under Part B of the Project as part of its investment plan included in 
its PJM.  
(jj) 
“Walikota” means the chief executive of a Kota. 
- 6 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty five million 
Dollars ($45,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
- 7 -
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, 
through MPW, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and land management practices, and 
social and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.  
- 8 -
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan and the PHRD Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish it to the Bank not later than twelve 
(12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval.   
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 4.01 for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
- 9 -
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of  statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 9 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
- 10 -
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall make publicly available, and agrees that the 
Bank may also make publicly available, each final audit report referred to in Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, promptly after its issuance by the independent auditors referred to 
therein. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
any of Law No. 32 of 2004 Regarding  Regional Governance, Law No. 
33 of 2004 Regarding Fiscal Balance between the Central Government and the Regions, 
or Decree MOF-No. 35/KMK.072/2002, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; or 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the PHRD Grant made to 
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the PHRD Grant Agreement. 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b)(i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
provisions of (b)(ii) of that Section. 
- 11 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the PHRD Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; 
(b) 
the Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been 
adopted by the Borrower through MPW in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
(c) 
the CPMU has been established in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and  
(d) 
each Participating ULG has: (i) established a PMU; and (ii) adopted the 
Project Management Manual, in each case in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement respectively.  
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Safeguards Framework has been 
adopted by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower and each Participating 
ULG in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Indonesia. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
- 12 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Treasury 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P.O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Mulia Nasution  
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Andrew Steer 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the Loan 
 
Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Sub-project Loans 
40,275,000 
100% of Sub-project 
 
amount disbursed 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services 
2,500,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Front-end Fee 
225,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of the 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(4) 
Unallocated 
2,000,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 
45,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) Sub-project Loans; (ii) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
(iii) contracts for the employment of individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent; 
and (iv) studies; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
- 15 -
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part B of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Part A of this Schedule adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
- 16 -
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part B of this Schedule 1, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 17 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $4,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.  
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 3 of Part B of  
Schedule 1 for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
- 18 -
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 19 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(a) 
the amount so requested; and 
(b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred 
to in paragraph 5 of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement applicable to such 
withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the provision 
of urban services by Participating ULGs and Additional Participating ULGs. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Urban Reform
1. 
Strengthening institutional capacity in Participating ULGs and Additional 
Participating ULGs and at the national government level to develop and implement urban 
reform programs through: 
(a) 
the provision of technical assistance and training to Participating ULGs 
and Additional Participating ULGs for: (i) the carrying out of core governance reform 
programs in the areas of civic participation and transparency, public procurement and 
financial management; (ii) the preparation and implementation of long-term urban 
development strategies and plans, including local economic development and urban 
poverty reduction strategies; and (iii) carrying out institutional and capacity development 
programs identified by ULGs; and  
(b) 
the provision of technical assistance to central government ministries and 
state agencies and the carrying out of studies, to improve: (i) national urban strategy 
formulation and the development and implementation of national urban reform programs; 
and (ii) their capacity to support urban reform in Kabupatens and Kotas. 
2. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MPW to carry out its administration, 
supervision and monitoring responsibilities under the Project.  
Part B: Urban Investment Support Program for Participating ULGs and Additional 
Participating ULGs
Carrying out Sub-Projects in Participating ULGs and Additional Participating 
ULGs,  including the provision of Sub-project Loans therefor. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2010. 
 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
November 15, 2010 
  
1,185,000 
May 15, 2011 
 
  
1,200,000 
November 15, 2011 
  
1,220,000 
May 15, 2012 
  
1,240,000 
November 15, 2012 
  
1,260,000 
May 15, 2013 
  
1,280,000 
November 15, 2013 
  
1,300,000 
May 15, 2014 
  
1,320,000 
November 15, 2014 
  
1,340,000 
May 15, 2015 
  
1,365,000 
November 15, 2015 
  
1,385,000 
May 15, 2016 
  
1,405,000 
November 15, 2016 
  
1,430,000 
May 15, 2017 
  
1,450,000 
November 15, 2017 
  
1,475,000 
May 15, 2018 
  
1,500,000 
November 15, 2018 
  
1,520,000 
May 15, 2019 
  
1,545,000 
November 15, 2019 
  
1,570,000 
May 15, 2020 
  
1,595,000 
November 15, 2020 
  
1,620,000 
May 15, 2021 
  
1,645,000 
November 15, 2021 
  
1,670,000 
May 15, 2022 
  
1,700,000 
November 15, 2022 
  
1,725,000 
May 15, 2023 
  
1,755,000 
November 15, 2023 
  
1,780,000 
May 15, 2024 
  
1,810,000 
November 15, 2024 
 
1,840,000 
May 15, 2025 
 
1,870,000 
 
________________ 
*The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.  
 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Guidelines), the provisions of Annex 
A to this Schedule 4 and the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), the provisions of Annex A to 
this Schedule 4 and with the provisions of this Schedule.  If the Borrower employs any 
procurement and inspection agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 3.17 
and 3.18 of the Consultant Guidelines are met. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.   
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, and goods 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 4. 
2. 
Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
- 23 -
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Individual Consultants.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 24 -
Annex A  
to  
SCHEDULE 4 
Without limitation on the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement  
(Schedule 4) and of the Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines (as such terms are 
defined in said schedule and referred to hereafter as the Procurement Guidelines), the 
following  provisions shall apply in respect of goods, works and consultants’ services to 
be procured under the Project: 
1. 
To ensure end-user participation in the procurement of goods, works and 
consultant services under the Project, the requestor/user of such goods, works or 
consultant services (as the case may be) to be acquired, shall be represented on the 
relevant procurement/selection committee.  The criteria for the selection of procurement 
committee/selection members shall in all cases be consistent with the provisions of the 
Procurement Guidelines and the Project Management Manual (provided, however, that in 
the event of any inconsistency between the Project Management Manual and the 
Procurement Guidelines, the provisions of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply). 
2. 
The Procurement Plan, including all updates thereof; shall be made publicly 
available promptly after its finalization. 
3. 
All bidding documents and requests for proposals issued in accordance with 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request, subject only to payment of a reasonable fee to cover the cost of 
printing and delivery.  In the case of requests for proposals, the relevant documents will 
only be made available after notification of award to the successful firm.  Each such 
document will continue to be made publicly available until a year after completion of the 
contract entered into for the goods, works or consultants’ services in question. 
4. 
All short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-qualification, lists of pre-
qualified contractors and suppliers shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request. 
5. 
A summary of the evaluation of all bids and proposals for specific contracts shall 
be disclosed to all bidders and parties submitting proposals therefor, promptly after the 
notification of award to the successful bidder/consultant.  Information in such summaries 
will be limited to a list of bidders/consultants, all bid prices and financial proposals as 
read out at public openings for bids and financial proposals, all bids and proposals 
declared non responsive (together with reasons for such an assessment), the name of 
winning bidder/consultant and the contract price.  Such summaries will be made available 
to any member of the public promptly upon request. 
6. 
Contract award information for all contracts for goods and works of $100,000 
equivalent or more and all contracts for consultants of $50,000 equivalent or more shall 
- 25 -
be made publicly available and published widely, and be made available to any member 
of the public upon request, promptly after such award. 
7. 
A list of all contracts awarded in the three (3) months preceding the date of such 
request, including, with respect to each such contract, the name of the 
contractor/consultant selected, the contract amount, the number of bidders/makers of 
proposals in respect thereof, the procurement method followed and the purpose of such 
contract shall be made available, promptly upon request by member of the public. 
8. 
Representatives of the end-users of goods or works being procured shall be 
permitted to attend public bid openings in respect thereof.  
 
- 26 -
Annex B  
to  
SCHEDULE 4 
1. 
General
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section II.B to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, the procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding shall be those 
set forth in Presidential Decree No. 80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the 
clarifications and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for 
compliance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the “Guidelines”). 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a 
condition for participation in the bidding process.  
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders: (i) 
shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not 
be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
3. 
Pre-qualification
(a) 
Pre-qualification shall not used for simple goods and works.  Normally, 
post-qualification shall be used.  Pre-qualification shall be required only for large or 
complex works with the prior ‘no objection’ of the Bank.  When pre-qualification shall 
be required: 
(b) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-
qualification, and  
(c) 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one 
(1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
4. 
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to 
form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a 
condition of award of the contract. 
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
- 27 -
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and 
local regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement procedures 
under the Loan Agreement. 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 
twenty-four (24) hours prior the deadline for the submission of bids. 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit 
responsible for procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated 
value of the contract. 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a registration 
process is required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity for registering. 
7. 
Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or 
bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and if bids are invited in two (2) envelopes, both envelopes (technical 
and price) shall be opened at the same time. 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidder. 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the 
owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
8. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
- 28 -
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding 
shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) of 
this Agreement. 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain until completion of the Project the IMSC, with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; and (b) establish and maintain the 
CPMU, with functions and responsibilities, and headed by a Project Manager with 
qualifications and experience, acceptable in each case to the Bank, and provided with 
such facilities, staffing and funding as shall be necessary to accomplish its functions, 
responsibilities and objectives.  
2. 
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, employ management consultants 
at the national level with qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank and selected in accordance with the provisions of Part A of Section III of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which provisions are included in the Project Management 
Manual, to provide management, administrative, supervisory and monitoring support to 
the CPMU under the Project and as described in the Project Management Manual. 
3. 
The Borrower, through MPW, shall ensure that: 
(a)  
each Participating ULG and each Additional Participating ULG shall: (i) 
establish and thereafter maintain, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Bank: (A) a PIU in each local government department responsible for implementing a 
part of the Project; and (B) a PMU; and (ii) provide said PIU and PMU at all times with 
adequate funds and other resources, and with qualified and experienced personnel in 
adequate numbers; and 
(b)  
each PPMU Province shall, by no later than January 31, 2006: (i) 
establish and thereafter maintain, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Bank, a PPMU; and (ii) provide said PPMU at all times with adequate funds and other 
resources, and with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be 
necessary to accomplish its functions, responsibilities and objectives.  
4. 
The Borrower, through IMSC, shall adopt and thereafter, through MPW, apply, 
and cause each Participating ULG and each Additional ULG to adopt (through a Surat 
Keputusan) and thereafter apply, a Project Management Manual acceptable to the Bank 
for the carrying out of the Project and their respective responsibilities therefore.  Such 
Project Management Manual shall include: 
(a) 
the description of the institutional arrangements for carrying out the 
Project, including; 
- 30 -
(i)  
the functions and responsibilities of those entities referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 3 above of this Schedule 5;  
(ii)  
the responsibilities of all relevant government (national and 
local) agencies within the Participating ULGs and Additional 
ULGs; and  
(iii)  
the terms of reference of the national-level consultants referred 
to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule 5; 
(b) 
the procurement procedures set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
in the Annexes thereto; 
 
(c) 
standard procurement documentation; 
 
(d) 
reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit 
procedures as set out in Article 4 of this Agreement;  
 
(e) 
the Project Performance Indicators set out in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement;  
(f) 
(i) the eligibility criteria for Kabupatens and Kotas to qualify as 
Additional Participating ULGs; and (ii) the eligibility criteria and preparation, appraisal 
and selection procedures for Additional Sub-projects, which criteria and procedures shall 
include those set out in the Annex to this Schedule 5;  
(g) 
the criteria for an urban reform action plan of a Kabupaten or a Kota to 
qualify as a Qualifying Urban Reform Action Plan; and 
(h) 
 the Safeguards Framework. 
For the purposes of ensuring that said manual at all times facilitates the attaining 
of the objectives of the Project, the Borrower, through the IMSC, shall carry out regular 
reviews of said manual as part of, and in accordance with, its undertakings set forth in 
paragraph 9 of this Schedule 5.  The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate or 
waive the Project Management Manual or any part thereof without the Bank’s agreement. 
5. 
Without limitation upon the provisions and requirements of the Project 
Management Manual, the Borrower shall:  
(a) 
ensure that only those Kabupatens and Kotas that have met the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Project Management Manual may participate in the Project as 
Additional Participating ULGs, which criteria include the adoption by the relevant 
Kabupaten or Kota of a Qualifying Urban Reform Action Plan;  
- 31 -
(b) 
approve a proposed urban reform action plan of an Additional 
Participating ULG as a Qualifying Urban Reform Action Plan only where: (i) said plan 
meets the criteria set out in the Project Management Manual; and (ii) upon the written 
confirmation by the Bank of its acceptance that said plan meets the relevant eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Project Management Manual; 
(c) 
not approve or otherwise agree to any amendment, suspension, 
abrogation or waiver of a Qualifying Urban Reform Action Plan of any Participating 
ULG or Additional Participating ULG without the Bank’s prior agreement; 
(d) 
make available Sub-project Loans to Participating ULGs and Additional 
Participating ULGs: (i) only in respect of Sub-projects and Additional Sub-projects, 
respectively; and (ii) only on terms and conditions that include those set forth in Part A of 
the Annex to this Schedule 5;  
(e) 
ensure that only those investment projects: (i) which have met the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Management Manual and in Part B of the Annex  
to this Schedule 5; (ii) for which a technical report has been issued in accordance with the 
provisions of said Part B; and (iii) which further comply with the procedures set forth in 
the Project Management Manual, qualify as Additional Sub-projects;  
(f) 
ensure that the proceeds of Sub-loans shall not be used to finance the 
acquisition of land; and  
(g) 
inform each Participating ULG and Additional Participating ULG that all 
auditing activities with respect to Sub-projects and Additional Sub-projects are to be 
carried out exclusively by independent auditors appointed by the CPMU in accordance 
with Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement and in accordance with the terms of reference 
referred to in paragraph 8 of this Schedule 5. 
6. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Schedule 5, the 
Borrower shall only: 
(a)  
declare: (i) a Kabupaten or Kota to be an Additional Participating ULG; 
(ii) an urban reform action plan to be a Qualifying Urban Reform Action Plan; and (iii) 
an Additional Participating ULG to be eligible for funding support through Sub-project 
Loans; and 
(b)  
make a Sub-project Loan in respect of an Additional Sub-project; 
after certifying to the Bank in each case that the relevant eligibility criteria and other 
provisions set forth in the Project Management Manual and the Annex to this Schedule 5 
have been met.   
7. 
Without limitation upon the requirements of the Project Implementation Plan, the 
Project Management Manual and the provisions of this Schedule 5, in carrying out Part B 
- 32 -
of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that: (a) each Participating ULG carries out its 
respective Safeguard Plan in accordance with its terms; and (b) each Participating ULG 
and Additional Participating ULG applies the Safeguards Framework, including: 
(a) 
taking all appropriate measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of 
land or assets of people and to avoid the displacement of said people; 
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of people is 
unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project or Additional Sub-project, making available, 
before carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement to 
such people, compensation, resettlement and other rehabilitation measures in accordance 
with: (i), in the case of a Sub-project, the relevant Safeguards Plan; and (ii), in each case, 
the Safeguards Framework;  
(c) 
where affected people are physically displaced or more than ten percent 
(10%) of their productive assets are lost or more than two hundred (200) people are 
displaced by a Sub-project or Additional Sub-project: 
(i) 
preparing a resettlement plan in accordance with the Safeguards 
Framework and furnish such plan to the Bank for approval; and 
(ii) 
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project or Additional Sub-
project, ensuring that all Displaced Persons shall have been 
compensated and provided with resettlement and rehabilitation 
measures in accordance with the provisions of said plan.  
(d) 
 taking all such measures and actions set out in said Safeguards 
Framework for the elimination or offsetting of adverse environmental impacts under a 
proposed Sub-project or Additional Sub-project, or the reduction of such impacts to 
acceptable levels, including, where a proposed Sub-project or Additional Sub-project is 
assessed as requiring a full environmental assessment (“AMDAL”) pursuant to the 
provisions of the Safeguards Framework, preparing such assessment in accordance with 
the Safeguards Framework and furnishing such plan to the Bank for approval; and 
(e) 
taking all such measures as are necessary to:  
(i)  
avoid adverse cultural, social and economic effects on Isolated 
Vulnerable People under the Project and, if not possible, take 
appropriate mitigating measures with respect to said effects; and 
(ii)  
through a process of informed participation, involve concerned 
Isolated Vulnerable People in the design and implementation of 
Sub-projects so as to ensure that the benefits received by the 
Isolated Vulnerable People under the Project are in harmony 
- 33 -
with their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect 
their customary user rights. 
8.  
The Borrower shall ensure that auditing activities under the Project, including the 
audits referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, are carried out in accordance with 
terms of reference agreed with the Bank. 
9. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the appropriateness of the Project Management Manual in furthering the 
attainment of the objectives of the Project, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
engage, by not later than March 31, 2006, consultants, each with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, for the purpose of carrying out independent  evaluation 
of the Project, including the Project Management Manual; 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, by March 15  and October 15 of each year, commencing March 15, 2006, and 
until completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 9, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding six (6) months 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the six (6) months following 
such date, which measures shall include in each report due by March 15 in any year; (i) 
proposed modifications, where considered appropriate, to the Project Management 
Manual, for the Bank’s consideration and approval; and (ii) the proposed update of the 
Procurement Plan pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement;  
(d)  
review with the Bank, on or about April 15 and November 15 of each 
year, commencing April 15, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report 
referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph 9, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the twelve (12) months following the date of such report, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter and subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Schedule 5; 
(e) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 15, 2008, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this paragraph 9, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
- 34 -
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;  
(f) 
review with the Bank, by April 15, 2008, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) of this paragraph 9, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter, subject to the provisions of paragraph 
4 of this Schedule 5; and 
(g) 
make publicly available the report referred to in sub-paragraph (e) of this 
paragraph 9, at the same time as it is furnished to the Bank pursuant to said sub-
paragraph. 
- 35 -
Annex 
to 
SCHEDULE 5 
Part A
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of Sub-project Loans by 
entering into Sub-project Loan Agreements with Participating ULGs and Additional 
Participating ULGs on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Management Manual 
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part A. 
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, each Sub-project 
Loan Agreement shall be subject to the following terms and conditions: (a) the principal 
of the Sub-project Loan shall be Rupiah-denominated; (b) the overall maturity shall be 
twenty (20) years; (c) the grace period on repayment of the principal of the Sub-project 
Loan shall be five (5) years; and (d) the Sub-project Loan shall carry interest at a rate 
which shall be calculated by adding 5.02 percentage points to the LIBOR Base Rate 
applicable to the Interest Period (as such terms are defined in Article II of this 
Agreement) during which each disbursement of the Sub-project Loan is made to the 
ULG. 
Part B
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of Sub-project Loans to 
Additional Participating ULGs only in respect of Additional Sub-projects selected in 
accordance with the criteria set out in the Project Management Manual, including the 
following: 
(a) 
No Additional Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a 
military or paramilitary purpose; (ii) include civil works for government administration 
or religious purposes; (iii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous 
goods (including asbestos, pesticides and herbicides), arms or drugs; (iv) relate to the 
manufacture or use of fishing boats of ten (10) or more tons, tackle or dynamite; (v) 
include the financing of government salaries; (vi) relate to the production, processing, 
handling, storage or sale of tobacco or products containing tobacco; (vii) relate to 
activities within a nature reserve or any other area designated by the Borrower for the 
management and/or the protection of biodiversity, except with the prior written approval 
of the Borrower’s agency responsible for the management and/or protection of such area; 
(viii) relate to mining or excavation of live coral; (ix) relate to water resources 
development on rivers which flow into or out of another country; or (x) relate to 
alterations to river courses.  
(b) 
Each proposed Additional Sub-project shall: 
- 36 -
(i) 
be 
a 
project 
which 
is: 
(A) 
technically, 
financially, 
environmentally and socially and economically viable; (B) has 
been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the 
Safeguards Framework; and (C) is intended to be carried out on 
a cost recovery basis; and  
 
(ii) 
have been identified as a priority infrastructure development 
project in the Additional Participating ULG’s PJM and have 
been approved by the Additional Participating ULG’s APBD. 
 (c) 
The APBD of the Additional Participating ULG shall have made 
appropriate budgetary  provision to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to meet the 
entire estimated costs of the proposed Additional Sub-project, including funding out of 
the proceeds of the Loan and counter-part funding. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MPW, ensure that, prior to the carrying out of works 
under a Additional Sub-project, the relevant Kabupaten Bupati, or the Kota Wali Kota, as 
the case may be, shall have: (a) caused to be completed a technical review of such 
Additional Sub-project; and (b) confirmed in writing to the CPMU the following: 
 
(i) 
that the criteria described in paragraph 1 of this Part B  have 
been complied with; 
 
(ii) 
that necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Additional 
Sub-project has been obtained; 
 
(iii) 
that appropriate engineering and environmental standards and 
practices that would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid 
involuntary resettlement of Displaced Persons have been 
considered in the design of the Additional Sub-project in 
accordance with the Project Management Manual; 
 
(iv) 
that the provisions of the Safeguards Framework have been 
complied with, including, where applicable, that: 
(A) 
appropriate compensation arrangements have been 
completed and are satisfactory to all Displaced Persons; 
and 
(B) 
where said proposed Additional Sub-project is assessed 
as 
requiring 
a 
full 
environmental 
assessment 
(“AMDAL”) pursuant to the provisions of the 
Safeguards Framework, such assessment in accordance 
with the Safeguards Framework has been carried out; 
- 37 -
(v) 
that an implementation plan for the Additional Sub-project has 
been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Management Manual; and 
(vi) 
that a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under 
the Additional Sub-project and related goods has been prepared 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Management 
Manual. 
Part C
The following table lists the references to documents pertaining to Sub-projects 
in Participating ULGs, which together constitute the Safeguard Plans for the purposes of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement: 
Participating 
LGU: 
Environmental Plan: 
Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Action 
Plan/Action Plan for 
Traders: 
Kabupaten. Musi 
Banyuasin 
UKL/UPL 660/132/Bapedalda/2005, 
March 17, 2005 
Letter No. 
511.2/2089/KOPPMPP of 
November 30, 2004 
Kabupaten 
Manokwari 
UKL/UPL No. 511.2/42.b,  
February 8, 2005 
Letter of Agreement No. 
055.112/300 of 
February 2005 
Kabupaten Parigi 
Muotong 
UKL/UPL 010/09.02/DI5 PLH/05, 
January 13, 2005 
Action Plan of Land 
Acquisition for the 
Development of Central 
Parigi Market of 
February 28, 2005 
Kabupaten 
Sidendreng 
Rappang 
UKL/UPL 660/123 a/Hutalin,  
March 4, 2005 
Letter of Agreement No. 
972/318/Dip. of  
January 29, 2005 
 
Letter of Agreement No. 
972/318/Dip. of  
February 1, 2005 
 
Letter of Agreement No. 
972/365/Dip of  
February 3, 2005 
Kabupaten Sleman 
UKL/UPL  660/05/2005,  
April 5, 2005 
 
- 38 -
Participating 
LGU: 
Environmental Plan: 
Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Action 
Plan/Action Plan for 
Traders: 
Kota Blitar 
UKL/UPL 660/09/422.105/2005, 
January 13, 2005 
 
Kota Cimahi 
UKL/UPL 660/62/DLH/2005,  
March 4, 2005 
Letter of Memorandum of 
Understanding No. 
912/615/Disperekop of 
March 2005 
Kota Palu 
UKL/UPL 25/237/Bapedal/2005, 
March 2, 2005 
 
Kota Parepare 
UKL/UPL /Bapedalda/II/2005, 
February 14, 2005 
Action Plan of the 
Rehabilitation of Lakessi 
Market, March 2005 
 
Letter of Agreement No. 
038/DPP/III/2005 of 
March 9, 2005 
Kota Palopo 
UKL/UPL 500/17/LH/II/2005, 
February 17, 2005 
Letter of Agreement No. 
645/104/PEMB./II/2005 of 
February 15, 2005 
 
Letter of Agreement No. 
551-21/043/Dishub/II/2005 
of February 17, 2005 
Kota Semarang 
ANDAL, RKL, RPL, 660.1/322, 
December 30, 2003 
 
Kota Depok 
SOP March 2005 
 
Kota Yogyakarta 
UKL/UPL 660/090a, March 2, 2005 
 
- 39 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators  
 
Outcome Indicators  
Baseline
YR1 
YR2 
YR3 
YR4 
YR5 
Frequency  
At least ten (10) ULGs 
improve priority urban 
services in areas 
financed with USDRP 
support. 
 
0
5
10
Bi-annually 
 
Results Indicators for 
Each Part of Project 
Part A: 
Greater public 
availability of 
information, especially 
related to plans, 
strategies, budgets, 
financial and 
procurement 
information audits, 
service fees in at least 
ten (10) ULGs.  
 
Participating ULGs 
have public feedback 
mechanisms in place 
(consultations, 
grievance resolution 
etc.)  
 
Participating ULGs 
have participatory 
planning processes and 
public consultations 
/hearings held re: 
strategies, plans and 
budgets.  
 
NA 
 
NA 
 
NA 
 
5
5
5
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
Annually 
 
Annually 
 
Annually 
 
- 40 -
Number of ULGs 
practicing sound 
financial and 
procurement 
management practices  
 
The Borrower 
implements UIDP. 
Percentage of UIDP’s 
annual business plan 
undertaken 
 
0
75% 
 
75% 
 
5
75% 
 
75% 
 
10 
 
75% 
 
Annually 
 
Annually 
 
Part B: 
ULGs prepare and 
implement sub-projects 
in infrastructure 
services worth a 
minimum of US$52.1 
total during the Project 
period. 
 
$0.0M  
 
$10.4M  
 
$20.9M  
 
$15.6M  
 
$5.2M  
 
Annually  
