CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4796-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Maharashtra Water Sector Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 19 , 2005 
 
2
LOAN NUMBER 4796-IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 2005, between INDIA, acting by its President 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)  
the Project will be carried out by the State of Maharashtra 
(“Maharashtra”) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement 
(the Loan) available to Maharashtra, as set forth in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement 
and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Maharashtra (the 
Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004)  (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 (a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
- 2 -
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Canal Level Association” means a Water Users’ Association at the 
canal level of an irrigation scheme; 
(b) 
“Contract Management Committee” and “CMC” means a committee 
consisting of two representatives each from the WRD and WUA and which will be 
responsible for all  procurement activities  at all the minor level WUAs; 
(c) 
“Cultural Property Strategy” means the strategy dated January 7, 2005, 
prepared by Maharashtra and acceptable to the Bank describing measures to be 
undertaken  to protect and preserve or rehabilitate cultural property, as necessary, during 
the execution of physical works under the Project, (including criteria and details for 
preparation of cultural property plans in cases of irrigation schemes under Part B of the 
Project where cultural property may be affected by the proposed civil works); 
(d) 
“Dam Safety Plan” means the plan dated January 7, 2005, prepared by 
Maharashtra and describing a program for ensuring the safety of all existing dams within 
the Project area, (which contains inter alia a series of measures to ensure that all works 
executed on dams during the course of the Project are undertaken after proper planning 
and review and are properly supervised; that adequate quality assurance measures are 
taken; and satisfactory implementation, and dam operation and maintenance); 
(e) 
“Distributory Level Association” means a Water User’s Association at 
the distributory level of irrigation schemes; 
(f) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
- 3 -
(g) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Financial 
Management 
Manual” 
means 
the 
manual, 
dated  
April 29, 2005  prepared by Maharashtra and agreed with the Bank, that contains 
measures to be undertaken by Maharashtra for the financial management of the Project; 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year “ means the fiscal year of the Borrower and Maharashtra 
beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
(j) 
“Gender Development Strategy” means Maharashtra’s strategy dated 
January 7, 2005 for  gender development, detailing  measures deemed necessary or 
appropriate to promote the role of women, enhance their livelihood opportunities, and 
support social justice and protection actions; 
(k) 
“Maharashtra” means the Borrower’s State of Maharashtra, or any 
successor thereto; 
(l) 
“Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation” means the 
agency of Maharashtra with that name, responsible, inter alia, for planning and 
development of  surface water schemes within the Krishna valley in Maharashtra; 
(m) 
“Maharashtra Krishna Valley Water Resources Corporation” means the  
river basin  agency to be established by Maharashtra by reorganizing the Maharashtra 
Krishna Valley Development Corporation under Part A of  the Project ; 
(n) 
“Maharashtra Management of Irrigation Systems by Farmers Act 2005” 
means the Act passed by Maharashtra on  April 13, 2005; 
(o) 
“Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority” means an 
independent regulator as defined in the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory 
Authority Act 2005 (as amended from time to time) and to be established by Maharashtra 
under Part A of the Project ; 
(p) 
“Operating Manual” means the operating manual for Water User’s 
Associations to be prepared by Maharashtra and agreed with the Bank, that contains 
detailed procedures, and implementation guidelines for the functioning of WUAs and the 
operation, maintenance and management of irrigation systems by  WUAs under Part B of 
the Project; 
(q) 
“Persons Affected by the Project” means any person who owns or 
occupies land, property or other assets or structures which are adversely affected by the 
Project, or whose livelihood, business, trade or other occupation is adversely affected as a 
result of the Project, and who is accordingly eligible for compensation or other 
assistance; 
- 4 -
(r) 
“Procurement Plan” means Maharashtra’s procurement plan, dated  
April 29, 2005, covering  initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(s) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Maharashtra of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(t) 
“Project 
Implementation 
Plan” 
means 
Maharashtra’s 
Project 
Implementation Plan  for  carrying out the Project, dated April 29, 2005, as agreed with 
the Bank; 
(u) 
“Project Level Association” means an apex  Water User’s  Association  
at irrigation scheme level; 
(v) 
“Project Preparation and Management Unit” and “PPMU” means the unit 
established for the preparation and management of the Project and referred to in  
paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement; 
(w) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(x) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means a plan prepared, whenever necessary 
or desirable, by Maharashtra in accordance with the Resettlement and Rehabilitation 
Entitlement Framework and reviewed and approved by the Bank, for a specific irrigation 
scheme, containing detailed measures for involuntary resettlement of Persons Affected by 
the Project within a given geographical area and which sets out, among other things, the 
principles and objectives of the plan, eligibility criteria for identification of Persons 
Affected by the Project, compensation, assistance and rehabilitation entitlements, as well 
as the monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with the provisions of 
the plan; 
(y) 
“Resettlement and Rehabilitation Entitlement Framework” means 
Maharashtra’s framework for involuntary resettlement of Persons Affected by the 
Project, which forms part of the Social and Environmental Management Framework, and 
which contains inter alia a range of measures to ensure that any involuntary resettlement 
of Persons Affected by the Project is undertaken in a fair and equitable manner, and that, 
whenever necessary or desirable, a Resettlement Action Plan is prepared in respect of 
activities to be carried out under Part B of the Project; 
(z) 
“Social and Environmental Management Framework” means the 
sequential framework and process governing social and environmental aspects of Project 
- 5 -
implementation, prepared by Maharashtra and approved by the Bank, dated  
January 7, 2005,  and setting forth inter alia the Sustainable Agriculture Strategy 
(including a pest management plan) Tribal Development Strategy, Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation Entitlement Framework, Gender Development Strategy, and Cultural 
Property Strategy, and the objective of which is to mitigate the environmental and social 
impacts of  irrigation schemes and related water activities under Part B of the Project and 
maximize the social and environmental benefits accruing under the Project, and which 
includes a plan with measures to offset, reduce to acceptable levels, or eliminate any 
adverse environmental or social impacts under the Project; 
(aa) 
“State Water Policy” means the water policy of Maharashtra as contained 
in Maharashtra State Water Policy, 2003; 
(bb) 
 “Sustainable Agriculture Strategy” means Maharashtra’s strategy for 
addressing likely irrigated agriculture-related environmental consequences of the Project, 
which forms part of the Social and Environmental Management Framework, and includes 
inter alia measures for integrated pest management (a pest management plan) and  
integrated nutrient management and development of institutional capacity and training in 
these fields; 
(cc) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(dd) 
“Tribal 
Development 
Strategy” 
means 
the 
strategy 
dated  
January 7, 2005, prepared by Maharashtra and acceptable to the Bank and describing a 
program for the development of the tribal population in the Project area and containing 
inter alia a series of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefits 
accruing to tribal groups and avoid or mitigate potential impacts adversely affecting such 
groups, to be implemented as part of the Project and which additionally includes  
inter alia criteria and details for the preparation of tribal development plans whenever 
necessary and appropriate for irrigation schemes and related activities being carried out 
under Part B of the Project; 
(ee) 
“Water Resources Department” means the water resources department of 
Maharashtra, and includes any successor thereto; 
(ff) 
“Water and Land Management Institute” and “WALMI”  means the 
training institute of that name, based in the city of Aurangabad in Maharashtra, 
responsible, inter alia, for training on water and land management; 
(gg) 
Water Resources Plan” means the state level plan for the development 
and management of water resources to be  prepared by Maharashtra from time to time; 
and 
- 6 -
(hh) 
“Water User’s Associations” and “WUAs” means a Water User’s 
Association formed at the minor level or above, which represents the users of irrigation 
water from that segment of any project, canal or natural flow or storage system.  
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred and twenty five million dollars ($325,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2012 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
- 7 -
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 8 -
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Maharashtra to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Maharashtra therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Maharashtra to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower’s arrangements for development assistance 
to the States of India. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08, and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Maharashtra 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
- 10 -
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Maharashtra will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c) 
The Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority Act 2005, has 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the implementation of the Project or the achievement of the Project objectives. 
(d) 
The Maharashtra Management of Irrigation Systems by Farmers Act 
2005, has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the implementation of the Project or the achievement of the 
Project objectives. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that an event specified in paragraph (a) of 
section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Maharashtra, and is legally binding upon Maharashtra in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 11 -
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
New Delhi, PIN 110001 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
 
953-3166175 
 
91-11-2309-2511 
 
New Delhi 
 
 
 
 
91-11-2309-2477 
 
91-11-2309-3133 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391  
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ Madhusudan Prasad 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By Michael Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Part A: General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
US Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Works 
248,000,000 
 
90% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
24,000,000 
 
100%  
 
(3) 
Consultancies 
16,000,000 
 
100%  
 
(4)  Training                   
  14,000,000         
  
100% 
 
(5)  Incremental Operating Costs              8,000,000   
 
50% 
 
(6) 
Front-end fee 
1,625,000 
Amount due  
 
under Section 2.04  
 
of this Agreement 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
13,375,000 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
325,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
the recurring costs of operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, office and 
vehicle rental, utilities expenses and incremental staff engaged for Project 
implementation.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Part on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 2004. 
- 14 -
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) civil works costing less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract;  (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training; and (f) Incremental Operating Costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other relevant 
information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit, or shall 
cause Maharashtra to submit, to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request. 
Part B: Special Account 
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
- 15 -
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that it is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
- 16 -
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b), or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 17 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $60,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $30,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $75,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:   
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
- 18 -
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 19 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in  
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to strengthen the capacity of Maharashtra for 
multi-sectoral planning, development, and sustainable management of the water 
resources; and (ii) to improve irrigation service delivery and productivity of irrigated 
agriculture. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Water Sector Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building
1. 
Establish in accordance with the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory 
Authority Act 2005 and operationalize the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory 
Authority. 
2. 
Reorganize the existing Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation 
into a new entity to be known as the Maharashtra Krishna Valley Water Resources 
Corporation which shall function as a river basin agency in accordance with the 
provisions of the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority Act 2005. 
3. 
Restructure the organization and management of, and capacity building within, 
the Water Resources Department, including carrying out of a detailed study on 
appropriate institutional reforms. 
4. 
Strengthen and build the capacity of the Water and Land Management Institute, 
including enhancement of infrastructure. 
5. 
Modernize the Water Resources Department’s management information systems, 
including implementation of a new computer system, and provision of appropriate staff 
training. 
Part B: Improving Irrigation Service Delivery and Management
1. 
Rehabilitation and modernization of about 286 selected irrigation schemes 
including, without limitation, re-sectioning channels, strengthening banks, silt and 
vegetation removal and repair of damaged structures. 
2. 
Implementation of measures to enhance the safety of about 291 dams/headworks 
in selected irrigation schemes, including remedial works, and structural and technical 
- 21 -
modernization works, and establishment of dam safety review panels to review proposed 
dam safety works prior to their implementation. 
3. 
Formation and fostering of Water User’s Associations in all the irrigation 
schemes selected pursuant to Part B.1 of the Project. 
4. 
Implementation of improved water management practices in six (6) selected 
irrigation schemes, including volumetric charging and bulk delivery of water to Water 
User’s Associations, as per their entitlement. 
5. 
Strengthening of agricultural support services including establishment of multi-
disciplinary technical support groups to assist water users in achieving greater 
productivity and efficiency in their use of water. 
6. 
Implementation of the plans prepared in accordance with the Social and 
Environmental Management Framework to address social and environmental issues 
arising out of implementation of the Project, and to ensure that the positive social and 
environmental consequences of the Project are maximized. 
Part C: Innovative Pilots
1. 
Establishing four innovative pilot schemes, one each in the Krishna, Bhima, 
Godavari-Purna and Wardha river basins, for user-centered aquifer-level groundwater 
management practices to achieve sustainable use of ground water resources.  
2. 
Establishing four pilot schemes for innovative irrigated agriculture to improve 
farmer’s income. 
Part D: Project Management
1. 
Provision of support to a multidisciplinary state level project preparation and 
management unit (the PPMU), to co-ordinate: (i) the work of the various State 
departments involved in the Project; (ii) procurement, financial management and 
reporting under the Project.  
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and consultants’ services for: (i) baseline 
survey; and (ii) monitoring and evaluation on an on-going basis the Project. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance, consultancies, publications, media coverage 
and workshops for carrying out of an information, education and communication 
campaign to create awareness about the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2011 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment Due Date 
 
 
 
Payment of Principal 
_______________ 
 
 
 
(Expressed in Dollars)*
March 15, 2011 
8,310,000 
September 15, 2011 
8,455,000 
March 15, 2012 
8,605,000 
September 15, 2012 
8,760,000 
March 15, 2013 
8,915,000 
September 15, 2013 
9,070,000 
March 15, 2014 
9,230,000 
September 15, 2014 
9,395,000 
March 15, 2015 
9,560,000 
September 15, 2015 
9,730,000 
March 15, 2016 
9,900,000 
September 15, 2016 
10,075,000 
March 15, 2017 
10,250,000 
September 15, 2017 
10,435,000 
March 15, 2018 
10,615,000 
September 15, 2018 
10,805,000 
March 15, 2019 
10,995,000 
September 15, 2019 
11,190,000 
March 15, 2020 
11,385,000 
September 15, 2020 
11,585,000 
March 15, 2021 
11,790,000 
September 15, 2021 
12,000,000 
March 15, 2022 
12,210,000 
September 15, 2022 
12,425,000 
March 15, 2023 
12,645,000 
September 15, 2023 
12,870,000 
March 15, 2024 
13,095,000 
September 15, 2024 
13,330,000 
March 15, 2025 
13,565,000 
September 15, 2025 
13,805,000 
 
*The figures in this column represent the amounts in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
