CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4798-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 14, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4798-IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 2005, between INDIA, acting by its 
President (the Borrower), and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)  
the Project will be carried out by the State of Tamil Nadu (Tamil Nadu), 
the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF), and the Chennai Metropolitan 
Development Authority (CMDA), with the Borrower’s and Tamil Nadu’s assistance and, 
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for 
in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Tamil Nadu, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and Tamil Nadu, the TNUDF Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and TNUDF, and the CMDA Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and CMDA; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
- 2 -
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a ULB meeting the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operations Manual and to which ULB Tamil Nadu has made or proposes to make a 
Capital Grant; 
(b) 
“Capital Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by Tamil 
Nadu out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for financing a Subproject under 
Part B.1(b) of the Project; 
(c) 
“CMA” means Commissionerate for Municipal Administration; 
(d) 
“CMA Procurement Plan” means CMA’s procurement plan, dated  
April 26, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.03 to the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement, to cover the succeeding 
eighteen (18) month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(e) 
“CMDA” means the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority; 
(f) 
“CMDA PMU” means the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority 
Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the CMDA 
Project Agreement; 
(g) 
“CMDA Procurement Plan” means CMDA’s procurement plan, dated 
April 29, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
- 3 -
provisions of Section 2.03 to the CMDA Project Agreement, to cover the succeeding 
eighteen (18) month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(h) 
“CMDA Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and CMDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CMDA Project 
Agreement; 
(i) 
“CMDA Technical Review Committee” means the Chennai Metropolitan 
Development Authority Technical Review referred to in paragraph 1 of the Schedule to 
the CMDA Project Agreement; 
(j) 
“Contribution Agreement” means the agreement dated November 18, 
1996, between participating financial institutions and Tamil Nadu on the one hand, and 
TNUDF on the other, providing for contributions and containing terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(k) 
“Debt Monitoring Cell” means the Debt Monitoring Cell established, or 
to be established within the CMA and referred to in paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the 
Tamil Nadu Project Agreement; 
(l) 
“DMAWS” means the Department of Municipal Administration and 
Water Supply, an administrative department of Tamil Nadu; 
(m) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“ESF” means the Environmental and Social Framework adopted by each 
of CMA, CMDA, and TNUDF on May 1, 2005, and incorporated into the Operations 
Manual, for purposes of setting forth the environmental and social framework to address 
the adverse temporary or permanent environmental and social impacts resulting, or likely 
to result from, the carrying out of the Project; 
(p) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement, Section 4.02 of the TNUDF 
Project Agreement, or Section 4.02 of the CMDA Project Agreement; 
(q) 
“Fiscal Year”” means the Fiscal Year of each of the Borrower, Tamil 
Nadu and TNUDF beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of 
the following calendar year; 
(r) 
“GC” means the Government Committee referred to in paragraph 1 of 
the Schedule to the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement; 
- 4 -
(s) 
“Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual adopted by each of 
TNUDF and CMDA on May 4, 2005, that sets forth the operational guidelines and 
procedures, and implementation and institutional arrangements, in respect of Project 
implementation activities carried out under Part B of the Project and referred to in 
paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the TNUDF Project Agreement and paragraph 2 of the 
Schedule to the CMDA Project Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“RDMA” means the Regional Directorate of Municipal Administration; 
(u) 
“Shareholders’ Agreement” means each of the following: (i) the 
agreement among participating financial institutions and Tamil Nadu for purposes of 
administering the TNUIFS; and (ii) the agreement among said institutions and Tamil 
Nadu for purposes of administering the Trust Company; 
(v) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(w) 
“Subborrower” means an urban local body, statutory board or authority, 
public undertaking, or private investor meeting the Subborrower eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operations Manual and to which TNUDF has made or proposes to make a 
Subloan; 
(x) 
“Subloan” means a Subloan made or proposed to be made by TNUDF 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Subborrower for financing a Subproject under  
Part B.1 (a) of the Project; 
(y) 
“Subproject” means a Subproject meeting the eligibility criteria set forth 
in the Operations Manual and to be carried out by a Subborrower or Beneficiary utilizing, 
inter alia, the proceeds of a Subloan or Capital Grant, respectively; 
(z) 
“Subsidiary Loan” means the Subsidiary Loan made by Tamil Nadu to 
the TNUDF out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to Tamil Nadu by the 
Borrower for financing Subloans; 
 (aa) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into between 
Tamil Nadu and TNUDF providing for the Subsidiary Loan, containing terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and includes any amendments, schedules, or annexes 
thereto; 
 (bb) 
“Tamil Nadu” means the State of Tamil Nadu, a State of India, including 
any successor thereto; 
 (cc) 
“Tamil Nadu Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Bank and Tamil Nadu of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Tamil 
Nadu Project Agreement; 
- 5 -
(dd) 
“TNUDF” means the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund created by 
the Trust Deed for purposes, inter alia, of receiving loans, contributions and other assets 
and utilizing the proceeds thereof to provide Subloans; and unless the context otherwise 
requires, whenever the term “TNUDF” is used, it shall be deemed to be a reference to 
TNUDF acting through the Trustee and, where appropriate, TNUIFS in accordance with 
the Trust Fund Management Contract; 
(ee) 
“Tamil Nadu PPF” means the Tamil Nadu Project Preparation Facility 
referred to in paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement; 
(ff) 
“TNUDF PDAF” means the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund 
Project Development Advisory Facility referred to in paragraph 4 of the Schedule to the 
TNUDF Project Agreement; 
(gg) 
“TNUDF Procurement Plan” means TNUDF’s procurement plan, dated 
April 26, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.04 to the TNUDF Project Agreement, to cover the succeeding 
eighteen (18) month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(hh) 
“TNUDF Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and TNUDF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the TNUDF Project 
Agreement; 
(ii) 
“TNUIFS” means the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial 
Services Ltd., a company incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Act, 1956, as 
amended; 
(jj) 
“Transport and Traffic Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be 
made by Tamil Nadu, through TNUDF, out of the proceeds of the Loan to CMDA for the 
financing of a Transport and Traffic Project under Part B.2 of the Project; 
(kk) 
“Transport and Traffic Project” means a Transport and Traffic Project 
meeting the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operations Manual and to be carried out by 
CMDA utilizing, inter alia, the proceeds of a Transport and Traffic Grant; 
(ll) 
“Trust Act” means the Indian Trust Act, 1882, as amended; 
(mm) “Trust Company” or “TNUITC” means the Tamil Nadu Urban 
Infrastructure Trustee Company Limited, incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies 
Act, 1956, as amended, for the purpose of acting as Trustee of TNUDF; 
(nn) 
“Trust Deed” means the Trust Deed dated November 29, 1996, executed 
by Tamil Nadu and accepted by the Trustee for purposes, inter alia, of creating the 
TNUDF; 
- 6 -
(oo) 
“Trustee” means the Trust Company accepting the Trust Deed with 
powers, inter alia, of receiving contributions, loans and other assets on behalf of the 
TNUDF in order to provide subloans through the TNUIFS, as the office of any of such 
Trustee may be vacated and filled in accordance with the Trust Act and the Trust Deed; 
(pp) 
“Trust Fund Management Contract” means the Trust Fund Management 
Contract dated January 9, 1997 between the Trustee and TNUIFS for purposes of 
enabling TNUIFS to develop, manage and operate the portfolio of TNUDF; and 
(qq) 
“ULB” means a municipal corporation, municipality, and such special 
village panchayats as may be designated as urban by Tamil Nadu from time to time. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Tamil Nadu, TNUDF, and 
CMDA. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(a)  
amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree to be paid) by TNUDF on 
account of withdrawals made by a Subborrower under a Subloan under Part B.1(a) of the 
Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a 
Subproject in respect of which withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested;  
(b)  
amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by Tamil Nadu 
through TNUDF on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Capital Grant 
under Part B.1(b) of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for a Subproject in respect of which withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested;  
(c)  
amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree to be paid) by Tamil Nadu 
through TNUDF on account of withdrawals made by CMDA under a Transport and 
Traffic Grant under Part B.2 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for a Transport and Traffic Project in respect of which withdrawal 
from the Loan Account is requested; and 
(d)  
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
- 7 -
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be March 30, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
- 8 -
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall:   
(i)  
cause Tamil Nadu to carry out Part A of the Project and to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Tamil Nadu 
Project Agreement all the obligations of Tamil Nadu therein set 
forth; and 
(ii)  
cause TNUDF, through Tamil Nadu, to carry out Part B.1 of the 
Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
TNUDF Project Agreement all the obligations of TNUDF 
therein set forth;  
(iii) 
cause CMDA, through Tamil Nadu,  to carry out Part B.2 of the 
Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
CMDA Project Agreement all the obligations of CMDA therein 
set forth; and 
- 9 -
(iv) 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Tamil Nadu to perform such obligations, 
and not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and technical practices and social and 
environmental standards; and 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Tamil 
Nadu in accordance with the Borrower’s arrangements for developmental assistance to 
the States of India. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the CMA Procurement Plan, 
the TNUDF Procurement Plan, or the CMDA Procurement Plan, as the case may be.  
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Tamil Nadu in 
respect of Part A of the Project pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Tamil Nadu Project 
Agreement, TNUDF in respect of Part B.1 of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
TNUDF Project Agreement, and CMDA in respect of Part B.2 of the Project pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of the CMDA Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
- 10 -
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Tamil Nadu Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
TNUDF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
TNUDF Project Agreement;  
 
(c) 
CMDA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
CMDA Project Agreement;  
 
(d) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which: (i) shall make it 
improbable that Tamil Nadu, TNUDF, or CMDA will be able to perform their respective 
obligations under the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement, the TNUDF Project Agreement, or 
CMDA Project Agreement; or (ii) affects materially and adversely the operation or 
financial condition of TNUDF; and 
- 11 -
(e) 
Tamil Nadu or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TNUDF or CMDA, or for the 
suspension of their respective operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), 
and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; 
and (b) the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)  
the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement has been duly executed and 
authorized or ratified by Tamil Nadu;  
(b) 
the TNUDF Project Agreement has been duly executed and authorized or 
ratified by TNUDF; 
(c) 
the CMDA Project Agreement has been duly executed and authorized or 
ratified by CMDA; and  
(d) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly amended and ratified by 
each of Tamil Nadu and TNUDF, satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that: 
 
(a) 
the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement has been duly executed and 
authorized or ratified by Tamil Nadu and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu in 
accordance with its terms; 
 
(b) 
the TNUDF Project Agreement has been duly executed and authorized or 
ratified by TNUDF and is legally binding upon TNUDF in accordance with its terms;  
 
(c)  
the CMDA Project Agreement has been duly ratified by CMDA and is 
legally binding upon CMDA in accordance with its terms; and  
- 12 -
(d) 
 the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly amended and ratified by 
each of Tamil Nadu and TNUDF and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu and TNUDF in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
953-31-66175 FINE IN 
91-11-2309-2511 
 
New Delhi 
91-11-2309-2477 
 
91-11-2309-3133 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India,  as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ Madhusudan Prasad 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Michael F. Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. 
General 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1)
Subloans under Part B.1(a) 
of the Project 
 
110,000,000 
 
100% 
 
(2)
Capital Grants under 
Part B.1(b) of the Project 
 
46,500,000 
 
100% 
 
(3)
Transport and Traffic Grants 
under Part B.2 of the Project 
 
121,500,000 
 
100% 
 
(4)
Project Development Advisory 
Facility  
 
3,000,000 
 
100% 
 
(5)
Consultants’ Services and 
Training  
 
10,950,000 
 
100% 
 
(6)
Goods under Part A of the 
Project  
 
1,500,000 
 
100% 
 
(7)
Incremental Operating Costs  
5,050,000 
 
100% 
(8)
Fee 
1,500,000 
__________ 
__________ 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
300,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “incremental operating costs” means 
the incremental costs of operation and maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles, 
- 15 -
office rental and expenses, hiring of vehicles, salaries of Project staff, and travel and 
other allowances, incurred by CMA, CMDA, and RDMA for the purposes of carrying out 
the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$60,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after June 1, 2004. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract;  (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training; and (f) incremental operating costs; all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
- 16 -
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.  
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
- 17 -
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 18 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 19 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve urban infrastructure services in Tamil 
Nadu in a sustainable manner through:  (a) strengthening the managerial, financial and 
technical capabilities of ULBs; (b) mobilizing resources and securing sustainable funding 
sources for urban infrastructure investment by TNUDF; and (c) providing incentives for 
investments in low-income neighborhoods through the use of Capital Grants. 
The Project consists of the following parts subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
PART A: Institutional Development
1. 
Provision of goods, technical assistance, workshops, and staff training to support 
the implementation and sustainability of urban policy reforms, organizational 
performance, and urban services delivery including: 
(a) 
managerial capacity enhancement within ULBs and related urban and 
municipal sector organizations to enable and sustain effective urban policy reforms;  
(b) 
information communication and technology support to streamline 
workflows within and between ULBs and strengthen ULBs’ global information system 
mapping capacities; 
(c) 
establishment of a Debt Monitoring Cell within the CMA for ULBs;  
(d) 
establishment of a  Tamil Nadu Project Preparation Facility within CMA 
to provide consultancy services to ULBs to prepare and implement infrastructure 
projects; and 
(e) 
Project management support including the financing of the incremental 
operating costs of the CMA and RDMA. 
PART B: Urban Investment
1. 
(a)    
Financing of Subprojects by TNUDF through the provision of Subloans 
to Subborrowers. 
 
(b)   
Financing of Subprojects by Tamil Nadu through the provision of Capital 
Grants to Beneficiaries through TNUDF.  
- 21 -
(c)  
Establishment of the TNUDF Project Development Advisory Facility 
within TNUDF to provide support for innovative infrastructure project financial 
structuring. 
2. 
(a) 
Financing of Traffic and Transport Grants by Tamil Nadu through 
TNUDF, through the provision of Traffic and Transport Grants to CMDA. 
 
(b) 
Project management support including the financing of the incremental 
operating costs of CMDA. 
 * 
 * 
 * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2010. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
March 15, 2011 
 
7,775,000 
 
September 15, 2011 
 
7,905,000 
 
March 15, 2012 
 
8,035,000 
 
September 15, 2012 
 
8,170,000 
 
March 15, 2013 
 
8,310,000 
 
September 15, 2013 
 
8,450,000 
 
March 15, 2014 
 
8,590,000 
 
September 15, 2014 
 
8,735,000 
 
March 15, 2015 
 
8,880,000 
 
September 15, 2015 
 
9,030,000 
 
March 15, 2016 
 
9,180,000 
 
September 15, 2016 
 
9,335,000 
 
March 15, 2017 
 
9,495,000 
 
September 15, 2017 
 
9,655,000 
 
March 15, 2018 
 
9,815,000 
 
September 15, 2018 
 
9,980,000 
 
March 15, 2019 
 
10,145,000 
 
September 15, 2019 
 
10,320,000 
 
March 15, 2020 
 
10,490,000 
 
September 15, 2020 
 
10,665,000 
 
March 15, 2021 
 
10,845,000 
 
September 15, 2021 
 
11,030,000 
 
March 15, 2022 
 
11,215,000 
 
September 15, 2022 
 
11,400,000 
 
March 15, 2023 
 
11,595,000 
 
September 15, 2023 
 
11,790,000 
 
March 15, 2024 
 
11,985,000 
 
September 15, 2024 
 
12,190,000 
 
March 15, 2025 
 
12,395,000 
 
September 15, 2025 
 
12,595,000 
 
*The figures in this column represent the amounts in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions. 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines) including 
paragraph 1.16 thereof where applicable, and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
B. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A of this Section II: 
1. 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, and 
Appendix 2 thereof providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out 
by domestic contractors.   
2. 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions of a Dispute Review Board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
- 24 -
3. 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.7 and 2.8 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
C. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement 
Guidelines.  
2. 
Shopping. Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Satellite imagery equipment, computer software, audio and 
video cassettes, books, periodicals and other proprietary goods which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines.  For purposes of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to 
cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be comprised entirely of national 
consultants.  Advertisements calling for letters of expression of interest shall be published 
in UNDB and dgMarket for all consultancy assignments estimated to cost more than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection.
Services for complex assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.   
2. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for audits, engineering designs, and capacity 
strengthening activities for implementing agencies, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-
- 25 -
cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services for assignments 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
5. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Individual consultants may be 
selected on a sole-source basis under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) the first three 
contracts for works awarded under National Competitive Bidding procedures, except for 
contracts awarded in respect of the activities carried out in respect of Parts B.1(a) and 
B.1(b) of the Project; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$3,000,000 equivalent or more; (c) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $1,000,000 equivalent or more; (d) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 equivalent or more; and (e) each contract 
for individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 equivalent or more. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
