CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4807-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Assistance System Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 28, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4807-UA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 28, 2005, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as 
amended through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows:  
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower 
or the Guarantor on the goods, works or services to be financed under the Loan, 
or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such 
taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the 
use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time 
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item (goods, 
works or services) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the 
Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
- 2 -
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Cooperation Agreement” means each agreement to be entered into by 
the MOLSP on the one hand, and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic 
of Crimea, Oblast state administration, and city state administrations of the City of Kyiv 
and Sevastopol on the other,  for the purposes of: (i) transferring standard software, 
hardware, furniture and other goods, and provision of training on social issues; (ii) 
implementing the Subvention for Modernization of Local Social Welfare Offices (as 
hereinafter defined in paragraph (r) of this Section);  and (iii) covering the reasonable 
expenditures incurred or to be incurred by Local Social Welfare Offices of rayon state 
administrations for renovation; by Regional Social Welfare Offices for installation of 
equipment, software and local networks, training of personnel, public communication 
campaigns, coordination and monitoring, and operating costs, all under Part A of the 
Project; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
services (other than consultants’ services) and consultants’ services referred to in Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(f) 
“Local Social Welfare Office” means a department or division 
responsible for labor and social protection, which is a structural unit of Rayon, (as 
hereinafter defined in paragraphs (n) of this Section), city of Kyiv and city of Sevastopol 
district state administration, a city council, or a district council within a city as the case 
may be;  
 
(g) 
“MOLSP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, 
established and functioning in accordance with the Decree of the President of Ukraine 
No. 1035 dated August 30, 2000, as amended from time to time; 
 
(h) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed Project 
performance indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the 
Borrower to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
- 3 -
(i) 
“Oblast” means each of the twenty-four (24) prime administrative-
territorial units of the Borrower forming the territorial basis for organization and 
operation of the local government bodies and local self-governments, and consisting of a 
given number of Rayons (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (m) of this Section) and 
certain cities directly subordinated to the Oblast; 
 
(j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 26, 2005 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding twelve (12) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(k) 
“Project Operations Manual” means the manual developed by the 
MOLSP and caused to be adopted by the Borrower setting forth detailed Project 
objectives and description, its implementation strategy and plans, monitoring 
mechanisms of the Project implementation, and procedures for the disbursement, 
financial management and procurement aspects of the Project, including responsibilities 
of Local and Regional Social Welfare Offices, as the same may be updated and amended 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section B of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter of Agreement No. P-4060-UA 
signed on behalf of the Bank on June 16, 2004, and on behalf of the Borrower on October 
7, 2004; 
 
(m) 
“Rayon” means the unit of the territory of an Oblast or the Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and consisting of rural and urban settlements, subordinated to the 
Rayon;
(n) 
“Region” means twenty four (24) Oblasts, the Autonomous Republic of 
Crimea and the cities of Kyiv and Sevastopol; 
 
(o) 
“Regional Social Welfare Office” means the Ministry of Labor and 
Social Policy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the main Department of Labor and 
Social Protection of Population of oblast state administrations, the main Department of 
Social Protection of Kyiv City State Administration, the Department of Labor and Social 
Protection of Sevastopol City State Administration, as the case may be, which is a 
structural unit of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, oblast 
state administration, Kyiv or Sevastopol city state administration respectively;  
 
(p) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
- 4 -
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“State Statistics Committee of Ukraine” and “SSCU” mean the 
Borrower’s specially authorized central executive body responsible for the conducting of 
state statistical activity in the Borrower’s territory, established pursuant to the provisions 
of 
the 
Decree 
of 
the 
President 
of 
Ukraine 
No. 
734/97 
dated 
July 29, 1997 “On Establishment of the State Statistics Committee of Ukraine”, and 
functioning pursuant to provision of the Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 60/2004, 
dated January 19, 2004 “On the State Statistics Committee of Ukraine”, and the Law of 
Ukraine No. 2614-XII dated September 17 1992 “On the State Statistics”, in the new 
edition set forth by the Law of Ukraine No. 1922-III, dated July 13, 2000; and 
 
(s) 
“Subvention for Modernization of Local Social Welfare Offices” means 
the amount consisting of Loan proceeds transferred or proposed to be transferred by the 
Borrower to Local Social Welfare Offices, as the case may be, approved by the 
Borrower’s Budget Law for each of the Fiscal Years 2006, 2007 and 2008 and used for 
the reasonable cost of refurbishment required by the Local Social Welfare Offices under 
Part A of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ninety-nine 
million four hundred thousand dollars ($99,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower to cover 
expenditures made by Local Social Welfare Offices, as the case may be, under a 
Subvention for Modernization of Local Social Welfare Offices; and (ii) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works, services (other than consultants’ services), consultants’ services and 
Operating Costs required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
- 5 -
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London  interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
- 6 -
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and of the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOLSP with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, 
social assistance and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, services (other than consultants’ services) and consultants’ services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be 
further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
- 7 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall through the MOLSP update the Procurement Plan 
and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the 
preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower through the MOLSP shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the MOLSP, maintain or cause to 
be maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
- 8 -
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of the reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall: 
 
(i) 
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one (1) year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
 
- 9 -
Section 4.03. 
The Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than December 30, 2007, have the physical outputs and 
functional results under Part A of the Project audited for at least thirty percent (30%) of 
the local and regional social welfare offices on the basis of guidelines issued by the 
MOLSP and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
thereafter, furnish to the Bank as soon as available a report on such 
physical outputs and functional results, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 4.04. The Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall: 
 
(a) 
have the internal control framework, the operational processes and 
procedures followed under the Project, audited for each Fiscal Year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), in accordance with terms of reference and by independent 
auditors both acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank): 
(A) certified copies of the assessment of the internal control framework, the operational 
processes and procedures referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such processes 
and procedures by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, as to 
whether they provide the Borrower adequate accounting, internal control and financial 
reporting as intended for the Project; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such internal 
control framework, operational processes and procedures, and the audit of such internal 
control framework, operational processes and procedures, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the Borrower has adopted the Project Operations Manual in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank;   
 
- 10 -
(b) 
that the State Budget Law of Ukraine for the Year 2006 containing the 
allocations of the Subvention for Modernization of Local Social Welfare Offices 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall has been published; and 
 
(c)  
that the Borrower has finalized and operationalized the financial 
monitoring system, consolidating project implementation data, including the data from 
Local and Regional Social Welfare Offices satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower 
is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 
Kyiv, 01008 
 
Ukraine 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
131450  
 
(380-44) 201-5685 
 
(380-44) 253-8243 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By /s/ Ivan Yakovych Sakhan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Paul Bermingham 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. 
General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods, works, services (other 
77,311,500 
100% 
 
than consultants’ services), 
 
consultants’ services, training, 
 
study tours and Operating costs 
 
(2) 
Subvention for 
9,900,000 
100% 
 
Modernization of local 
 
social welfare offices 
 
(3) 
Refunding of  
2,000,000 
Amounts due  
 
Project Preparation 
 
pursuant to  
 
Advance 
 
Section 2.02 (b) 
 
of this Agreement 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
248,500 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
(5) 
Unallocated 
9,940,000
TOTAL 
99,400,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating costs” means expenditures 
incurred to finance the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the MOLSP, and 
Regional Social Welfare Offices for the operation, administration and maintenance of the 
Project, including travel, rent of premises, office supplies, books, communication costs, 
reasonable bank charges, printing and publications (electronic and paper), translations, 
notary services, consumables and other expenditure items agreed by the Bank throughout 
the life of the Project. 
 
- 13 -
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods, works 
and services (other than consultants’ services) costing less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract; (ii) services of individual consultants costing less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (iv) training, study tours and Operating Costs; and (v) 
Subventions for Modernization of Local Social Welfare Offices, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
National Bank of Ukraine or other banking institutions on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
- 14 -
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 15 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount not exceeding $9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 16 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the three-month period following the date 
of such reports. 
 
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in achieving significant 
improvement of the effectiveness of Ukraine’s social assistance system by better 
targeting of the cash benefits and the reduction of burden on beneficiaries. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Administrative Modernization 
1.  
Development of Capacity of Local Social Welfare Offices
Improvement of the capacity of about seven hundred fifty-four (754) Local 
Social Welfare Offices to enable them to deliver quality services to clients, through the 
implementation of organizational and operational reforms aimed at establishing an 
unified, function-based and client-oriented structure with rationalized and integrated 
front- and back-office operational functions, and encompassing: (i) a “single window” 
client interface based on the Single Application Form; (ii) uniform eligibility and benefit 
determination with a closely integrated social inspector function; (iii) unified benefit 
accounting; (iv) community outreach and public information; (v) program monitoring and 
evaluation functions; and (vi) management information reporting and analytic capacities, 
and the design of new business processes and, on the basis thereon, manuals of 
procedures, forms, work-flow, work-load estimates, and application software designs, 
and the staffing models, job descriptions, and training program designs, requirements for 
premise layouts, office equipment, furnishings, and information and communications 
technologies (ICT), through the provision, to such ends, of standard software and 
hardware to the Local Social Welfare Offices and the financing of Subvention for 
Modernization of Local Social Welfare Offices .    
 
2.  
Development of Capacity of Regional Social Welfare Offices
Provision of hardware and software to the regional social welfare offices for 
performing social assistance program and monitoring.  Increasing the level of public 
awareness at regional and local levels of the system of social assistance as well as 
informing different segments of population of their rights for social assistance and the 
ways how to receive it, and encompassing, inter alia, publication of analytical, 
informational and educational articles in the regional press, production of information 
materials for dissemination to target population groups, holding of press-conferences and 
round-tables on social assistance administration reform, and monitoring of the regional 
media. 
 
- 18 -
Part B: Social Protection Policy Development, Monitoring, Evaluation and 
Public Information
Strengthening of the MOLSP’s capacity: (i) to develop social assistance policies 
with the systematic approach to monitoring program outcomes and policy impacts on a 
regular basis; and (ii) to design and implement a comprehensive information and 
education campaign on social assistance policies and programs, which comprises: 
 
1. 
Social Assistance Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening of the MOLSP’s capacity to develop social protection policies 
with a systematic approach, to evaluate their effectiveness and efficiency contributing to 
the long-term sustainability of the system, and to monitor policy impacts on regular basis, 
including the provision of assistance, training, seminars, workshops, study tours, office 
equipment, standard software packages and hardware as required for: (i) the development 
and implementation of a business plan for the MOLSP’s Department of Social Strategy, 
comprising the clarification of its functional responsibilities and the establishment of 
appropriate linkages between the Department and other related departments, the 
production of an annual Social Policy report for the Borrower and the public, and the 
outlining of the structure of a monitoring and evaluation system; (ii) the construction of a 
social protection database; (iii) data modeling, applied empirical methodology for 
handling and interpreting data, critical analysis of organizational and system operation; 
(iv) the development of the library and a program of outsourced policy studies.  
 
2. 
Poverty Monitoring and Analysis
Strengthening capacity of the MOLSP and the SSCU in poverty monitoring and 
analysis, in particular, through implementation of a set of activities on improving the 
reliability of key poverty indicators at national and regional levels, as well as assessment 
of performance efficiency of social protection programs through modular surveys.  
 
3. 
Public Information and Communication
Improvement of the communication of information regarding social assistance 
policies and services, through the development and implementation of a public 
information campaign and the provision of assistance, television and radio time aimed at 
increasing the level of public awareness of the system of social assistance in the 
Borrower’s territory and key steps of its reform. and encompassing, inter alia,
publication of analytical, informational and educational articles in the national press, 
production of information materials, the holding of press conferences and round tables on 
social assistance administration reform, the carrying out of public opinion polls of target 
audiences and population at large. 
 
- 19 -
Part C: Institutional Development
Strengthening of the MOLSP capacity as required to enable it to adequately 
perform its responsibilities under the Project, specially the coordination of the 
implementation arrangements with the regions, the monitoring of the quality of 
implementation of the new standard office model and the fiduciary aspects of the Project, 
and including the provision of assistance, training, equipment to support the MOLSP staff 
capacity development, its computerized accounting system, and Project auditing.  
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
dollars)*
May 15, 2011 
2,425,000 
November 15, 2011 
2,475,000 
May 15, 2012 
2,525,000 
November 15, 2012 
2,575,000 
May 15, 2013 
2,630,000 
November 15, 2013 
2,685,000 
May 15, 2014 
2,740,000 
November 15, 2014 
2,795,000 
May 15, 2015 
2,855,000 
November 15, 2015 
2,915,000 
May 15, 2016 
2,975,000 
November 15, 2016 
3,035,000 
May 15, 2017 
3,100,000 
November 15, 2017 
3,165,000 
May 15, 2018 
3,230,000 
November 15, 2018 
3,295,000 
May 15, 2019 
3,365,000 
November 15, 2019 
3,435,000 
May 15, 2020 
3,505,000 
November 15, 2020 
3,575,000 
May 15, 2021 
3,650,000 
November 15, 2021 
3,725,000 
May 15, 2022 
3,805,000 
November 15, 2022 
3,880,000 
May 15, 2023 
3,965,000 
November 15, 2023 
4,045,000 
May 15, 2024 
4,130,000 
November 15, 2024 
4,215,000 
May 15, 2025 
4,300,000 
November 15, 2025 
4,385,000 
* The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods and services (other than consultants’ 
services) estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions:  
 
(a) 
Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic firms.  Foreign firms shall not be 
excluded from the national competitive bidding process irrespective of the contract value. 
 
- 22 -
(b) 
Procedures
(i) 
“Open tender procedures” shall be followed in all cases.  
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Bulletin 
of State Procurement “Visnyk Derzhavnykh Zakupivel” and in at 
least one (1) widely circulated national or regional as the case 
may be daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days 
for the preparation and submission of bids.  
 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost.  
 
(c) 
Pre-qualification
(i) 
Prequalification, where used, shall be based on a “pass/fail” 
system.  
 
(ii) 
Minimum experience, technical, and financial requirements shall 
be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.  
 
(d) 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
(i) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory shall 
be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish that 
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government.   
 
(ii) 
Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(e) 
Bidding Documents
(i) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate sample bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank , including pre-qualification 
documents, for the procurement of goods or technical services 
(other than consultants' services). 
 
(ii) 
Bidding documents shall be made available to all those 
companies that have paid the required fee. 
 
- 23 -
(f) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(i) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  
 
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
No domestic preference shall be allowed in evaluating bids. 
 
(iv) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no 
negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract award. 
 
(g) 
Rejection of Bids
(i) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is 
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. 
 
(ii) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(h) 
Securities
Bid security shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract. Performance security shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract price. 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment 
security. The format of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents 
and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
- 24 -
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B: 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines  may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (i) each contract for 
goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) to be procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding or Direct Contracting; (ii) the first two (2) contracts for 
goods and services (other than consultants’ services) to be procured on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding or Shopping, regardless of the cost thereof; (iii) each contract for 
- 25 -
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more; (iv) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the 
basis of Single Source Selection; and (v) the first two (2) for consultants’ services to be 
procured on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection, Quality-based Selection, 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget, Least-cost Selection or Selection Based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications, regardless of the cost thereof.  In addition, the record of justification referred 
to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for the first two (2) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants, regardless of the cost thereof, shall be subject 
to Prior Review by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Section A:
Organizational Structure
1. 
MOLSP
(a) 
In furtherance of its implementation responsibilities under the Project, a 
Deputy Minister of MOLSP, acting as Manager, shall be assigned overall responsibility 
of the Project, who for such purposes shall provide the strategic link between the 
implementation of social assistance reform and effective delivery of the Project.  The 
Borrower shall ensure that the required assistance is provided at all times to the MOLSP 
throughout Project implementation to enable it to adequately carry out the fiduciary 
functions under the Project, including the availability of a financial management 
specialist and a procurement advisor.  
 
(b) 
The MOLSP shall be in responsible for Project implementation and 
coordination and management of Project funds.  To that end, the Borrower shall take all 
action required to ensure that the MOLSP is provided at all times with the required 
financial resources and assistance for Project management, procurement, financial 
management, and accounting.  In particular, the MOLSP shall be responsible for: (i) 
coordination of the procurement, disbursement and reporting functions on day-to-day 
basis; (ii) liaising with the Bank, SSCU and with other agencies involved in the Project; 
(iii) managing, monitoring and reporting functions for under the Project; (iv) monitoring 
Project expenditures and costs, management of the procurement process, including 
preparing and updating the procurement plan, processing of procurement packages and 
coordination of the bid evaluations process, placing and managing contracts, preparing 
Applications for Withdrawal from Loan account  and tracking disbursements and internal 
control of the Loan and Borrower’s funds; (v)  maintaining Project records and accounts; 
(vi) updating the Project Operations Manual; (vii) preparing and distributing the 
consolidated progress reports referred to in Section B.4 of this Schedule to the Bank and 
other relevant agencies of the Borrower, reflecting the status of implementation progress 
and current costs of the Project and estimated costs of Project completion; (viii) ensuring 
timely preparation and submission to the Bank and the  relevant agencies of the Borrower 
of annual audit reports of Project expenditures, and (ix) preparation of the 
Implementation Completion Report. 
 
2. 
Local and Regional Social Welfare Offices
Local and regional social welfare offices shall take part in the implementation of 
Part A of the Project with regard to modernization of the Local and Regional Social 
Welfare Office as described in the Schedule 2 of this Agreement in accordance with the 
Project Operations Manual and Cooperation Agreements. 
 
- 27 -
Section B:
Progress Monitoring and Reporting
1. 
Project Operations Manual
The Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall take all action required to ensure that 
the Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall ensure that the MOLSP does not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Operations Manual or any provision thereof. 
 
2. 
Cooperation Agreements
For the purposes of ensuring the successful implementation and monitoring of 
Part A of the Project, the Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall, not later than three (3) 
months after the Effectiveness Date, conclude with the Council of Ministers of the 
Autonomous Republic of Crimea, each Oblast state administration, Kyiv and Sevastopol 
city state administrations a Cooperation Agreement satisfactory to the Bank which shall 
set forth the conditions and modalities for: (i) transferring standard software, hardware, 
furniture and other goods, and provision of training on social issues to the regions; (ii) 
implementing the Subvention for Modernization of the Local Social Welfare Offices;  
and (iii) covering the reasonable expenditures incurred or to be incurred by Local Social 
Welfare Offices of rayon state administrations for renovation; by regional social welfare 
offices for installation of equipment, software and local networks, training of personnel, 
public communication campaigns, coordination and monitoring, and operating costs.  
 
3. 
Study Tours and Training
For the purposes of the study tours and the training for social assistance 
administration and monitoring and evaluation of social assistance under the Project, the 
Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval every six (6) months, the content of 
each such study tours and training, including an explanation on how such study tours and 
training is consistent and conducive to the objectives of the Project and whether it offers 
the best price/quality ratio, as well as the schedule for its implementation; 
 
(b) 
select the participants and trainees in accordance with a transparent 
process and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the study tours and training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and 
 
- 28 -
(d) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each study tours and training and the benefits to be 
derived therefrom. 
 
4. 
Semi-annual Progress Reports
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the MOLSP, commencing on June 30, 2006 and 
thereafter, not later June 30 and December 31 in each calendar year and until Project 
completion, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a consolidated semiannual progress 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, 
in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project during the preceding semester.   
 
5. 
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through the MOLSP, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about April 30, 2007 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by May 31, 2007 or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the 
said 
report 
and 
the 
Bank’s 
views 
on 
the 
matter.
 
