CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4795-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Hydropower Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 19, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4795-UA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 2005, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by 
UKRHYDROENERGO (UHE, as further defined in paragraph (t) of Section 1.02 of this 
Agreement) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) available to UHE, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and UHE (the 
Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
- 2 -
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Commission” means the Commission for Energy Sector Reform and 
Development established by the Decision No. 1091 of the Cabinet of Ministers of 
Ukraine dated August 25, 2004, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section A of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means: (i) in respect of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, Categories (1) and (2)(a) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; (ii) in respect of Part D of the Project, Category (2)(b) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (iii) in respect of Part E of the Project, 
Category (2)(c) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Energomarket” means the state enterprise “Energomarket”, which acts 
as a single buyer of electricity in the territory of the Borrower; 
(e) 
“Environmental Action Plan” and “EMP” means the Borrower’s 
environmental management plan dated March 9, 2005, describing the environmental, 
- 3 -
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken under Parts A and B 
of the Project to ensure that all environmental concerns are adequately taken into account 
in the carrying out of the works and activities thereunder; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
(h) 
“HPP” means hydropower plant; 
(i) 
“MFE” means the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, established 
and functioning in accordance with the provisions of its charter approved by  
Decree No. 598 of the President of Ukraine dated April 14, 2000; 
(j) 
“MFE Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed 
performance indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the 
Borrower to measure the progress in the implementation of Parts D and E of the Project 
and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
(k) 
“NERC” means the National Electricity Regulation Commission, the 
Borrower’s central executive agency responsible for energy regulation and functioning in 
accordance with the provisions of its charter approved by Decree No. 213 of the 
President of Ukraine dated March 14, 1995; 
(l) 
“Permanent Working Group” and “PWG” means the Permanent Working 
Group hired by MFE, and referred to in paragraph 2 of Section A of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
May 11, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(n) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and UHE 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
- 4 -
(o) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(p) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Statutes” means UHE Statutes dated September 16, 2004; 
(r) 
“Subsidiary Loan” means the subsidiary loan proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to UHE for the purposes of carrying out  
Parts A, B and C of the Project; 
(s) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and UHE pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01(c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(t) 
“UHE” means UkrHydroEnergo, a fully state-owed, open joint-stock 
company formed as a result of the merger of the Borrower’s two state-owned companies 
operating the hydropower plants on the Dnipro and Dnister Rivers; and 
(u) 
“UHE Legislation” means the Order No. 831 of the Ministry of Power 
and Electrification of Ukraine dated December 31, 2003, according to which UHE has 
been established and is operating. 
Section 1.03. 
Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to UHE, in respect of Parts A, B 
and C of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred six million dollars ($106,000,000). 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
- 5 -
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2012 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
- 6 -
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project and, to this end: (i) shall carry out, respectively: (A) Part D of the Project 
through the MFE; and (B) Part E of the Project through the NERC, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, energy, 
engineering, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts D and E of 
the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, shall cause UHE to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of UHE therein set forth, shall 
- 7 -
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable UHE to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out Parts D and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to Categories (1) and (2)(a) available to UHE under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and UHE, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank which shall include those stipulated in the Annex to 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the procurement of 
the goods and services required for Parts D and E of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan and furnish such update 
to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of Parts D and E of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
- 8 -
Section 3.04. 
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project shall be carried out by UHE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts D and E of the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of the reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
- 10 -
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 of Section C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Parts D and E of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Parts D and E of the Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts D and E of the 
Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent quarter, and shall cover such quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. 
The Borrower shall cause NERC: 
(a) 
to establish for Fiscal Year 2006, and thereafter maintain for each of the 
following Fiscal Years, tariffs for UHE sufficient and adequate to enable UHE to have 
available the Project counterpart funds in a timely and adequate manner;   
(b) 
to ensure distribution of funds due from Energomarket to UHE in a 
timely and adequate manner and in accordance to the algorithm in place; 
- 11 -
(c) 
to introduce not later than December 31, 2005, a two-tier tariff for UHE 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
to introduce, in parallel with the suitable development of the balancing 
mechanism for the wholesale electricity market, a system service charge, to be paid to 
UHE. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
UHE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that UHE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
UHE Legislation or the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of UHE 
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
- 12 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and UHE; and 
(b) 
that UHE shall have selected an international Project management 
consultant under terms of reference and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. 
The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by UHE, 
and is legally binding upon UHE in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and UHE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and UHE in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
- 13 -
For the Borrower: 
Minister of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 
Kyiv, 01008 
 
Ukraine 
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
131450
(380-44) 253-82-43 
 
(380-44) 201-56-84 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By: /s/ Ivan Plachkov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Paul Bermingham 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the Loan  
% of 
 
Allocated  
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods under 
90,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
Parts A, B and C 
 
expenditures, 
 
of the Project 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost)  
 
and 80% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services, 
 
100% 
 
including audit: 
 
  
 
(a) under Parts A, B and 
4,500,000 
 
C of the Project 
 
(b) under Part D 
2,500,000 
 
 
of the Project 
 
(c) under Part E 
3,000,000 
 
 
of the Project 
 
(3) 
Front-end fee 
530,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(4) 
Unallocated 
5,470,000
TOTAL 
106,000,000
- 16 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, except for those contracts referred to in 
paragraph (ii) of Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) for services of 
individual consultants costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (iii) for 
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. 
Special Accounts
1. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes, respectively, of each of Parts A, B and C, 
Part D and Part E of the Project, open and maintain in dollars three separate special 
deposit accounts in a Ukrainian or foreign commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
- 17 -
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into any Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
- 18 -
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 19 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, an amount of $500,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part D of the 
Project, and an amount of $500,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part E of the 
Project, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the respective Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan for the respective Special 
Account for Parts A, B and C, for Part D and for Part E of the Project, respectively, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions Account for Parts A, B and C, for  
- 20 -
Part D and for Part E of the Project, respectively, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan Account for Parts A, B and C, for Part D 
and for Part E of the Project, respectively, shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
- 21 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  Each such deposit into the respective Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so 
requested; and (ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve operational stability and 
reliability of power supply through increased regulating capacity, efficiency and safety of 
hydroelectric plants; (ii) to enhance the institutional development of UHE; and (iii) to 
support the MFE and NERC in developing and implementing an energy sector reform 
and development program, including the Wholesale Electricity Market concept. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Hydropower Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of nine (9) hydroelectric plants, the Kyiv HPP, the Kyiv pumped 
storage plant, the Kaniv HPP, the Kremenchug HPP, the Dniprodzerzinsk HPP, the 
Dniprovska HPP1 and HPP2, the Kahovka HPP and the Dnister HPP, including:  
(i) refurbishment of their forty-six (46) hydroelectric units; (ii) replacement of protective 
relaying, metering, telecommunication systems, monitoring and control systems; and (iii) 
refurbishment of plant switchyards and associated auxiliary systems. 
Part B: Dam Safety
Strengthening of the safety of existing dams on the Dnipro and Dnister rivers, 
encompassing: (i) installation of computer-aided dam safety monitoring systems for the 
Dniprovska, Dniprodzerzhinsk, Kaniv and Dnister dams and hydropower plants;  
(ii) rehabilitation of: (A) drainage facilities; (B) design profiles (rehabilitation of 
subsidence); (C) slope protections; (D) concrete spillways and other reinforced concrete 
works at Kyiv, Kaniv, Dniprovska and Dniprodzerzinsk dams; (iii) protection against 
higher phreatic lines (high piezometric levels) in the dam embankments at Kaniv, 
Kremenchug, Dniprodzerzinsk and Kahovka; (iv) rehabilitation and/or replacement of the 
needed 
hydro-mechanical 
gates 
for 
the 
Dniprovska 
and 
Dniprodzerzhinsk 
dams/spillways; (v) carrying out of a detailed review of the necessity of 
rehabilitation/replacement of any of the spillway gates for Kremenchug and Kahovka 
dams; and (vi) provision of technical assistance as required for: (A) a study for the safe 
design floods for the Kyiv and Kaniv reservoirs; (B) upgrading/replacement of 
hydrological instrumentation for the HydroMet, for more reliable measurements, 
assessments, and flood forecasting; (C) a study, assessment and analysis of the reservoir 
sedimentation for the Kyiv dam; and (D) training of professionals in dam safety 
management, optimal operation of the multi-purpose cascade of hydropower dams and 
- 23 -
reservoirs, including specialized training in the fields of computer-aided monitoring 
system design, system operation and maintenance, and dam safety inspection. 
Part C: UHE Institutional Development
Enhancement of UHE institutional capacity, including: (i) the development and 
establishment of a modern corporate-wide management information system (MIS) in 
UHE; and (ii) provision of technical assistance as required for: (A) procurement and 
Project management under Part A of the Project; (B) design and phased implementation 
of the MIS; (C) revaluation of UHE’s fixed assets; and (D) carrying out of the audit of 
the Project and UHE’s accounts. 
 
Part D: Implementation of the Energy Sector Reform and Development Program
Provision to the MFE of the required advisory services by the Permanent 
Working Group and other consultants in order to assist the MFE in developing and 
implementing: (i) an action plan for legal and technical harmonization of the Borrower’s 
energy market with the European Union Internal Energy Market; and (ii) a program of 
priority investments in energy infrastructure. 
Part E: Implementation of the Wholesale Electricity Market Concept
Provision of technical assistance to NERC in implementing the Wholesale 
Electricity Market (WEM) concept, as required for: (i) clarifying the market design and 
main principles of market operations; (ii) drafting of main codes and market rules; and 
(iii) defining technical requirements for the supporting tools such as software for market 
operation, telecommunications systems and metering. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2011. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
dollars)*
February 15, 2012 
3,620,000 
August 15, 2012 
3,685,000 
February 15, 2013 
3,745,000 
August 15, 2013 
3,810,000 
February 15, 2014 
3,870,000 
August 15, 2014 
3,935,000 
February 15, 2015 
4,005,000 
August 15, 2015 
4,070,000 
February 15, 2016 
4,140,000 
August 15, 2016 
4,210,000 
February 15, 2017 
4,280,000 
August 15, 2017 
4,350,000 
February 15, 2018 
4,425,000 
August 15, 2018 
4,500,000 
February 15, 2019 
4,575,000 
August 15, 2019 
4,650,000 
February 15, 2020 
4,730,000 
August 15, 2020 
4,810,000 
February 15, 2021 
4,890,000 
August 15, 2021 
4,970,000 
February 15, 2022 
5,055,000 
August 15, 2022 
5,140,000 
February 15, 2023 
5,225,000 
August 15, 2023 
5,310,000 
 
* The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
(a) 
Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic firms.  Foreign firms shall not be 
excluded from the national competitive bidding process irrespective of the contract value. 
- 26 -
(b) 
Procedures
(i) 
“Open tender procedures” shall be followed in all cases.  
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Bulletin 
of State Procurement “Visnyk Derzhavnykh Zakupivel” and in at 
least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper allowing 
a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids.  
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost.  
(c) 
Pre-qualification
(i) 
Prequalification, where used, shall be based on a “pass/fail” 
system.  
(ii) 
Minimum experience, technical, and financial requirements shall 
be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.  
(d) 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
(i) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory shall 
be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish that 
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not financed by, and do not receive 
funding from, the state budget.   
(ii) 
Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
(e) 
Bidding Documents
(i) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample 
bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents, for 
the procurement of goods or technical services (other than 
consultants' services), all acceptable to the Bank. 
- 27 -
(ii) 
Bidding documents shall be made available to all those 
companies that have paid the required fee. 
(f) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(i) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 
(iii) 
No domestic preference shall be allowed in evaluating bids. 
(iv) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no 
negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract award. 
(g) 
Rejection of Bids
(i) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is 
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. 
(ii) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(h) 
Securities
Bid security shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract. Performance security shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract price. 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment 
security. The format of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents 
and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
- 28 -
3. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.6 
and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
- 29 -
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (i) each contract for 
goods and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more or procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding or Direct 
Contracting; (ii) the first contract to be procured on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding or Shopping, regardless of the cost thereof; and (iii) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more.  In addition, with respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the report on the 
qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Section A: Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Commission for Energy Sector Reform and Development
The Commission shall, inter alia, act as the focal point for the Project 
coordination and implementation.  To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Commission is maintained throughout Project implementation under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.  More specifically, the Commission shall coordinate and 
supervise the implementation of the conceptual plan for legal and technical 
harmonization of the Borrower’s energy market with the European Union Internal Energy 
Market, including the overall monitoring of the investment projects and technical 
assistance under the Project. 
2. 
Permanent Working Group
The PWG shall act as the Commission Secretariat and shall be vested 
responsibility for: (i) preparing and updating a conceptual plan for legal and technical 
harmonization of the Borrower’s energy market with the European Union Internal Energy 
Market; (ii) developing a program of priority investments and technical assistance in the 
energy sector; (iii) establishing communication and documentation procedures under the 
Project; (iv) managing the technical consultants employed to assist in Project preparation; 
and (v) assisting the UHE in meeting the Project requirements.  For such purposes, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the PWG is maintained throughout Project implementation 
under terms of reference and with a composition satisfactory to the Bank.  
Section B: Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Environmental Action Plan
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its behalf to carry out, or to 
enable UHE to carry out, the measures identified under the Environmental Management 
Plan at all times in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the 
implementation of said measures is suitably included in the Project progress reports to be 
prepared pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section C of this Schedule. 
- 31 -
2. 
Dam Safety
The Borrower shall take all action required on its behalf to enable UHE to 
comply with the provisions stipulated in paragraph 2, Section B, of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement regarding the establishment and operation of the Dam Safety Center, 
the design and carrying out of works under Part B of the Project, and the implementation 
of plans and continuation of safety inspections of the dams. 
3. 
Study Tours and Training under Parts D and E of the Project
For the purposes of the study tours and training to be provided under Parts D  
and E of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval every six (6) months, the content of 
each such training, including an explanation on how such study tours and training is 
consistent and conducive to the objectives of the Project and whether it offers the best 
price/quality ratio, as well as the schedule for its implementation; 
(b) 
select the attendees and trainees in accordance with a transparent process 
and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each training and the benefits to be derived 
therefrom. 
Section C: Reporting and Review
1. 
Progress Reports 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the MFE shall, commencing on March 31, 2006, and 
thereafter, not later than March 31 in each calendar year and until Project completion, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the MFE Monitoring and 
Evaluation Indicators, the progress achieved in the implementation of Parts D and E of 
the Project during the preceding calendar year and the updated Technical Assistance 
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators for the upcoming calendar year. 
- 32 -
2. 
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through the MFE shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the MFE Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of Parts D and E of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2008, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts D and E of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts D and E of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts D and E of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
- 33 -
Annex  
to  
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Terms and Conditions of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the provisions set 
forth or referred to in this Annex shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement. 
2. 
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable to the Borrower under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall: (i) be denominated in dollars; and (ii) be the 
equivalent in dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment of the 
principal amount of the Loan specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) of the value of 
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special 
Account for Parts A, B and C of the Project on account of the cost of goods and services 
for Parts A, B and C of the Project to be financed under the Subsidiary Loan out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2)(a). 
3. 
UHE shall pay to the Borrower: (i) interest on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement, 
plus a margin at a rate to be determined according to the terms of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; (ii) a commitment fee equal to the rate applicable from time to time to the 
Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement calculated on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time; and (iii) a 
front-end fee in the amount determined according to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, to be deducted from the amount of the Subsidiary Loan. 
4. 
UHE shall repay to the Borrower the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan in 
accordance with an amortization schedule not exceeding the maturity of the Loan, 
inclusive 
of 
a 
grace 
period 
not 
exceeding 
six 
(6) 
years.
 
