CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4809-RO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Knowledge Economy Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 8, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4809-RO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 2005, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Grant Facility” means the co-financing facility referred to in Part C.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“ICT” means information and communication technology; 
(d) 
“LCeN” means local community e-network; 
- 2 -
(e) 
 “MCIT” means the Ministry of Communications and Information 
Technology of the Borrower, or any successor thereto; 
(f) 
“MSME” means micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises; 
(g) 
“National Strategy for the New Economy and the Implementation of the 
Information Society” means the Borrower’s strategy for an information society and 
knowledge economy development, dated October 2002; 
(h) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit in MCIT or any legal 
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in paragraph 2 of Part A of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
(i) 
“POM” means the Project Operational Manual setting forth the  
implementation and fiduciary operations of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Procurement 
Plan” 
means 
the 
procurement 
plan, 
dated 
September 30, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(k) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of 
the Bank on June 22, 2004, and on behalf of the Borrower on June 30, 2004, as amended 
by the amendment letter signed on behalf of the Bank on May 30, 2005, and on behalf of 
the Borrower on June 15, 2005; 
(l) 
 “Project Steering Committee” or “PSC” means the committee 
established by the Borrower pursuant to MCIT Order No. 43/2005, with membership and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Part A of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
million Dollars ($60,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, services, training and operating costs required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) other expenditures incurred under the 
Project in respect of the Grant Facility. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MCIT, may, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) to be 
administered by the PMU in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1.00%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  Such fee shall 
be payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1.00%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
- 4 -
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1.00%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
- 5 -
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MCIT, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, engineering, 
financial, educational and information and communication technology practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
MCIT, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the PMU, update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MCIT, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objective; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
- 6 -
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MCIT, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MCIT, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through  
MCIT, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
- 7 -
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through  
MCIT, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower, through MCIT, shall have adopted the 
POM satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty days (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
- 8 -
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Public Finance 
 
17, Apolodor Street 
 
Bucharest 
 
Romania 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
11239  
 
4021 312 6792 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
             Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By: /s/ Sebastian Vladescu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Owaise Saadat  
Authorized Representative 
 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods 
29,620,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
80% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Operating Costs 
8,510,000 
100%  
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
2,280,000 
85% of foreign 
 
Services and Audits 
 
expenditures  
 
and 75% of  local 
 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
Dissemination, Monitoring 
1,240,000 
85% of foreign 
 
and Evaluation 
 
expenditures 
 
and 75% of local 
 
expenditures
- 11 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars )
to be Financed
(5) 
Training 
3,740,000 
100%  
 
(6) 
Grant Facility 
9,000,000 
100%  
 
(7) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
3,390,000 
75% 
 
(8) 
Refunding of  
2,000,000 
Amounts due  
 
Project Preparation 
 
pursuant to  
 
Advance 
 
Section 2.02 (c) 
 
of this Agreement 
 
(9) 
Unallocated 
220,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 
60,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “Goods” shall also include charges payable by LCeNs to 
internet and telephone services providers under contracts to provide broadband services 
to LCeNs; 
(d) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the costs incurred by LCeNs, the 
national support provider and the portal on account of Project implementation 
comprising: office supplies; salaries of staff; rent of office accommodations; and 
maintenance and insurance of equipment;  
- 12 -
(e) 
the term “Dissemination, Monitoring and Evaluation” means the costs 
incurred to measure progress in Project implementation, and to raise awareness in 
targeted populations of the opportunities and lessons of the Project; 
(f) 
the term “Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, 
seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers; and 
(g) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means  the incremental 
operating costs incurred by the PMU on account of the Project implementation 
comprising: salaries of staff (other than the salaries of the civil servants); communication 
(including postage and internet); procurement related advertising costs; local 
transportation; fuel; operating, maintenance and insurance costs for vehicles; rent of the 
office accommodation; refurbishment and rehabilitation of offices including equipment;  
office supplies, maintenance and insurance of the office equipment; Project related travel 
and per diem allowances including accommodation and local transportation; banking 
charges; and training of PMU staff. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 
above (except under Category (8)), unless the Bank has received payment in full of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) training; (b) 
goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) 
grants under Category (6); and (f) operating costs under Categories (2) and (7), all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to accelerate the participation of knowledge 
disadvantaged communities in the knowledge-based society and economy in Romania. 
To this end, the Project will enable the Borrower to implement the National Strategy for 
the New Economy and Implementation of the Information Society, and the European 
Union programs related to the information society for all. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Access to ICT in Knowledge Disadvantaged Communities and Improved Digital 
Literacy
1. 
Provision of equipment, consultants’ services, infrastructure and training, and 
provision of funds for operating costs for improving access to ICT through the 
development of LCeNs and a national support provider, by establishing at least two 
hundred (200) multi-purpose local e-networks to provide information, services and 
benefits to citizens and businesses.  
2. 
Provision of consultants’ services and training to promote increased access to 
ICT and e-services through LCeNs. 
3. 
Provision of consultants’ services and training to enhance the digital literacy of 
students and teachers at the primary and lower secondary education levels. 
Part B: Development and Promotion of e-Government Services 
1. 
Provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training for developing an 
online system for the registration of family associations and self-employed individuals. 
2. 
Provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training to government 
authorities, and provision of internet service for county authorities, for the development 
of an integrated network for citizen status information and documentation.  
- 14 -
Part C: Promotion of e-Commerce and Innovation Support for MSMEs 
1. 
Provision of equipment, consultants’ services, training and provision of funds for 
operating costs for developing a portal for promotion of e-commerce and business 
networking. 
2. 
Operation of a facility to provide co-financing grants from the proceeds of the 
Loan to eligible beneficiaries to facilitate e-business adoption.  
Part D: Project Management
Provision of funds for incremental operating costs of the PMU; provision of 
vehicles for the PMU and consultants’ services for the audits and for the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2010. 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars) 1
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning April 15, 2011 
  
2,500,000 
through October 15, 2022 
  
  
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding and the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to 
this Schedule. 
2. 
Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method.  
- 17 -
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for assignments which the 
Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines  may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirement of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultants Guidelines. 
5. 
Individual Consultants.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 18 -
Annex  
to 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts 
Subject to National Competitive Bidding  
Contracts for goods for which Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement allows 
procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations with the 
following exceptions: 
A. 
Procedures
The Open Procedure, as defined in Article 9 of the “Emergency Ordinance 
Regarding Public Procurement No. 60/2001”, as subsequently amended, shall be 
followed in all cases, irrespective of value.  Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at 
least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper or the Official Gazette, allowing 
a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
B. 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is 
recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying 
minimum experience, technical and financial requirements which shall be explicitly 
stated in the bidding documents. 
C. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in Romania shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting 
authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
D. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods or services, which shall contain draft contract and conditions of 
contract acceptable to the Bank.  Bidding instructions shall clearly stipulate that discount, 
if any, must be stated by the bidder either in a cover letter or in the bid form.  In case of 
joint ventures, bidding conditions shall stipulate joint and several liability of all the 
partners of the joint venture. 
- 19 -
E. 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation, Award of Contract
(a) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened at the public 
bid opening.  Should bids be submitted in two (2) or more envelopes, all envelopes shall 
be opened at the public bid opening. 
(b) 
Bids shall be opened in public immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  No bid shall be rejected during bid opening.  The name of the bidder, 
the total amount of each bid, and any discounts shall be read aloud and recorded in the 
minutes of the public bid opening.  Any discount not mentioned in the cover letter or bid 
form shall not be taken into account in the evaluation. 
(c) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point system or 
scoring on the basis of “technical and economical financial achievements” shall not be 
used. 
(d) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for a maximum of 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be requested without the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
(e) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
(f) 
No preference shall be applied under National Competitive Bidding.          
(g) 
There shall be no negotiations, even with the lowest evaluated bidder, 
without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(h) 
The results of evaluation and the names of the winning bidder shall be 
published. 
F.   
Price Adjustment
Contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) shall contain an 
appropriate price adjustment clause. 
G.   
Rejection of All Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior written concurrence. 
- 20 -
(b) 
When the number of bids received is less than two (2), re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
H. 
Securities
No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable Advance 
Payment security.  The wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding 
documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Part A: Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall assign the responsibility for carrying out the Project to 
MCIT. 
2. 
To enable MCIT to implement effectively the Project, not later than thirty (30) 
days after the Effective Date of this Agreement, a PMU with adequate staffing and 
resources shall be established.  The PMU shall thereafter be maintained with adequate 
staffing and resources for the duration of the Project.  The PMU shall have administrative 
and technical staff, and, as necessary, the technical staff shall be located within the other 
Ministries of the Borrower collaborating with MCIT in the Project implementation.  The 
PMU shall, inter alia, be responsible for financial management, procurement, 
disbursement, and preparation of progress reports and annual reports in respect of the 
Project. 
3. 
For the Project oversight, the Borrower shall maintain, under the chairmanship of 
the Borrower’s Minister of Communications and Information Technology, the Project 
Steering Committee comprising high-level representatives from the various Ministries 
and agencies of the Borrower involved in the Project preparation and implementation. 
The PSC shall, inter alia, set strategic directions for the Project and approve the POM.  
4.  
The POM, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be approved by the Project Steering 
Committee, and shall be adopted by the Borrower through MCIT. 
5. 
The Borrower, through MCIT, shall take all necessary measures to implement the 
Project in accordance with the POM and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or 
waive any provision of the POM without prior approval of the Bank. 
Part B: Implementation of the Grant Facility Program Under Part C.2 of the Project
1. 
The Borrower, through MCIT, shall implement the Grant Facility program in 
accordance with the POM setting forth criteria and procedures for selection of recipients 
and sub-projects, as well as the main terms and conditions of the agreements to be 
concluded with the recipients. 
2. 
The Borrower, through MCIT, shall ensure that the recipient of any fund under 
the Grant Facility, shall carry out the respective sub-project in accordance with the 
approved agreement, timetable and budget. 
- 22 -
Part C: Reporting and Monitoring
The Borrower, through MCIT, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31, 2008, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2008, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) 
and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $3,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule, including local currency 
payments made directly to suppliers and contractors through corresponding transfer 
accounts opened in commercial banks, in accordance with rules and procedures 
acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the  Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower, through 
MCIT, shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower, through MCIT, shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower, through 
MCIT, shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the  
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 24 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower, 
through MCIT, shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower, 
through MCIT, shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower, through MCIT, out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower, through MCIT, shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
- 25 -
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the  
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
