CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7320-HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Science and Technology Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 16, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
22
LOAN NUMBER 7320-HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF 
CROATIA 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Brodarski Institute (BI) 
and other selected RDIs, Part B of the Project – by BICRO, (BI and BICRO are 
collectively referred to as “Project Agencies”), with the Borrower’s assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the Loan available 
to each of the Project Agencies, as set forth in this Agreement;      
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the respective Project Agreements with each of the Project Agencies of 
even date herewith between the Bank and each of the Project Agencies; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed- Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
(a) 
“Brodarski Institute”, or “BI” means the limited liability company 
established and operating in the territory of the Borrower pursuant to its Articles of 
Association, approved by the Government Decision dated January 15, 1992 (court 
- 2 -
registration No. Fi-22202/92, of February 25, 1992, MBS 08012 7309) or any legal 
successor thereto; 
(b) 
“BI Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and BI 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all agreements supplemental to the BI Project Agreement; 
(c) 
“BI Staff Severance Plan” means a plan adopted by the BI describing the 
terms and conditions and criteria, agreed with the Bank, for termination of employment 
of the employees of the BI, including severance payments thereunder;  
(d) 
“BICRO” means Business Innovation Center of Croatia established 
pursuant to Government’s Decision of October 30, 1997 (commercial court registration 
No. Tt-98/1091-2 of September 3, 1998, MBS 08021 4447), or any legal successor 
thereto; 
(e) 
“BICRO Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and BICRO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all agreements supplemental to the BICRO Project Agreement; 
(f) 
“Beneficiary” means an entity eligible, in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Procedures, to receive Sub-financing under Part B and Part C.2 
of the Project; 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“MSES” means the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of the 
Borrower, or any legal successor thereto; 
(i) 
“Operational Procedures” means the procedures, agreed with the Bank 
and adopted by BICRO and MSES setting forth eligibility criteria and procedures for 
selection, appraisal and approval of Beneficiaries and Sub-projects to be financed under 
the Project, as well as the procedures for administration and monitoring of 
implementation of Sub-projects;   
(j) 
“PIP” means Project Implementation Plan setting forth procedures and 
requirements for carrying our the Project, adopted by the Borrower and agreed with the 
Bank; as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;  
- 3 -
(k) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established by the Borrower 
within MSES for purposes of Project management; 
(l) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
May 3, 2005 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation;  
(m) 
“Project Agencies” means collectively the BI and BICRO; 
(n) 
“Project Agreements” means collectively the BI Project Agreement and 
BICRO Project Agreement; 
(o) 
“RAZUM Program” means a program on innovative technologies 
established by the Borrower for supporting development of knowledge-based companies 
through commercialization of their research and development outputs;  
(p) 
“RDIs” means Research and Development Institutes which may be 
selected from time to time, upon agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for 
participation in Part A of the Project and are eligible for assistance under Part A of the 
Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(q) 
“Severance Payments” means the payments to be made out of the Loan 
proceeds to the employees of BI and other RDIs, separated pursuant to the BI Staff 
Severance Plan and RDIs’ Staff Severance Plans, respectively; 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Subsidiary Finance Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and each Project Agency pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Finance Agreement and the term “Subsidiary Finance 
Agreements” means collectively the Subsidiary Finance Agreements between the 
Borrower and each of the Project Agencies; 
(t) 
“Sub-Project Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into  
between BICRO and an eligible Beneficiary to implement a Sub-Project under Part B of 
the Project; and between MSES and an eligible Beneficiary to implement a Sub-project 
under Part C.2 of the Project; 
- 4 -
(u) 
“Sub-financing” means any financing in the form of a loan, grant or 
equity investment made or proposed to be made by BICRO, or MSES to an eligible 
Beneficiary for a Sub-project, and to be financed out of the procedures of the Loan; 
(v) 
“Sub-project” means a specific project eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Procedures, to be carried out by a Beneficiary using a Sub-Financing under Part B and 
C.2 of the Project;  
(w) 
“SPREAD” means Sponsored Research and Development Program 
referred to in Part B.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
(x) 
“TCs” means Technology Centers referred to in Part B of the Project. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to BICRO and BI.  
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty-one 
million Euro (EUR 31,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a currency conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02 (a).  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals to be made by BICRO or MSES under a Sub-Project Agreement to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, services and equity investments required for the Sub-project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (ii) for expenditures 
made (or if the Bank shall so agree to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
services, severance payments and operating costs required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the Loan; (iii) the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; and (iv) any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cup or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions.  
- 5 -
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Euro a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) from the date on which such 
charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the 
General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy-five (0.75%) thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
- 6 -
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly after the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself that amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated 
from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
cause, through MSES, the Project Agencies to perform each in accordance with the 
provisions of their respective Project Agreements, all the obligations of the Project 
Agreements therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds (which shall include counterpart funds), facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project Agencies to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance, or which would limit in any respect organizational, 
managerial or financial autonomy of Project Agencies.    
(b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
through MSES, carry out the Project and cause each Project Agency to carry out its 
- 7 -
respective Part in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, and PIP. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MSES, shall make part of the proceeds of the 
Loan available to the Project Agencies under separate Subsidiary Finance Agreements to 
be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Project Agencies, or eligible RDIs, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall 
include, inter alia, the following conditions: (i) the loan proceeds shall be made available 
to BI and other RDIs’– 65% on a grant basis and 35% as a loan of the total allocation to 
BI or an eligible RDI, respectively; (ii) the loan proceeds shall be made available to 
BICRO -- 50% on a grant basis and 50% as a loan of the amount allocated for financing 
the activities under Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project; and 100% on a grant basis of the 
amount allocated for financing activities under Parts B.1, B.4 and B.5 of the Project. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower, shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods  and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan; and 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MSES, update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than two (2) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
- 8 -
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried 
out by the Project Agencies pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreements. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed by the Bank) 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than five (5) months after the end of each such year or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year or such other period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in  scope 
and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
- 9 -
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year or other period agreed 
to by the Bank, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance agreed with the 
Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than thirty (30) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than thirty (30) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
- 10 -
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified namely, that: 
(a) 
Any of the Project Agencies shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under their respective Project Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
As a result of events, which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which, shall make it improbable 
that any of the Project Agencies will be able to perform their obligations under their 
respective Project Agreements. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that events specified in paragraphs (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that all Subsidiary Finance Agreements have been executed 
on behalf of the Borrower and each of the Project Agencies.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a) 
that each Project Agreement has been duly authorized and entered into 
by each of the Project Agencies, and is legally binding the respective Project Agency in 
accordance with its terms; and  
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Finance Agreements have been duly authorized and 
entered into by the Borrower and each of the Project Agencies and are legally binding 
upon the Borrower and the respective Project Agencies in accordance with their terms. 
- 11 -
Section 6.03. The date one hundred-twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Katan�i�eva 5 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
862-21215 
 
862-21833 
 
(385-1) 4922-598 
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zagreb, Republic of Croatia as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By: /s/ Ivan Suker 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Anand K. Seth  
Authorized Representative 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
Expressed in Euro
% of Expenditures 
to be financed
(1)   Goods 
 
6,900,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex factory) 
and 80% of local costs for 
other items procured locally 
(2)   Consultants’ services  
3,900,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, and 75% of 
local expenditures 
 
(3)   Training 
 
1,145,000 
 
100% 
 
(4)   Sub-financing 
(a) under Part B.3 of 
the Project; 
 
(b) under Part B.5 of 
the Project; 
 
(c) under Parts B.2, 
B.4 and C.2 of the 
Project 
 
4,500,000 
 
1,500,000 
 
10,700,000 
 
100% of Sub-project 
amount 
 
100% of Sub-project 
amount 
 
80% of Sub-project amount 
 
(5)   Severance payments 
 
700,000 
 
100% 
- 14 -
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
 
% of Expenditures 
 
Category
Expressed in Euro
to be Financed 
(6)   Operating costs of  
BICRO, RDIs and PMU 
500,000 
 
75% 
 
(7)   Fee 
155,000 
Amount due under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement 
 
(8)   Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
Amount due under Section 
2.09 (c) of this Agreement 
 
(9)   Unallocated 
 
1,000,000
TOTAL 
 
31,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower. 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means: (i) incremental operating costs 
incurred by the PMU on account of Project implementation, including, inter alia, salaries 
of administrative staff (except for Government employees), office equipment, 
maintenance and supplies, and travel expenses; (ii) incremental operating costs incurred 
by  BICRO and a respective eligible RDI; and a list of eligible operating expenditures 
shall be set forth in a plan for each respective RDI, PMU or BICRO, and agreed upon 
with the Bank. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
- 15 -
EUR 1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures under 
Categories (1) through (5) before that date but after January 1, 2005; and 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (3)(a) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until: (i) legislative enactments, agreed with the 
Bank, have been passed for regulating venture capital investments; and (ii) the 
Operational Procedures have been modified, as agreed with the Bank, to govern the 
implementation of Part B.3. of the Project. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding EUR 200,000 equivalent; (b) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding EUR 100,000 equivalent; (c) services provided by individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding EUR 50,000 equivalent; (d) Sub-financing 
contracts; (e) operating costs; (f) training; and (g) severance payments, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen and restructure research and 
development institutions and promote commercialization of the research outputs; and  
(b) to upgrade technological capabilities of enterprises. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Restructuring of Research and Development Institutions (RDIs)
1. 
Provision of equipment, consulting services, training to BI and selected RDIs for:  
(a) strengthening RDIs’ governance structure and capacity in strategic planning and 
change management; (b) development and introduction of modern budgetary, accounting, 
MIS and audit systems; (c) strengthening marketing, contract and intellectual property 
management introducing transparent criteria for selecting research programs and 
individual projects, establishing science parks and profit centers; (d) human resources 
development through adopting proper transparent human resources policies and staff 
training; (e) upgrading physical infrastructure; and (f) establishing virtual Science Parks. 
2. 
Financing of incremental operating costs of BI and selected RDIs, incurred in 
connection with organizational restructuring of these entities. 
3. 
Implementation of staff retrenchment program, including provision of Severance 
Payments to BI’s staff and selected RDIs’ staff separated in accordance with the 
provisions of their respective Staff Severance Plans. 
Part B: Upgrading of Technology Development Financing Programs  
1. 
Institutional Building of BICRO. Strengthening institutional capacity of BICRO, 
including managerial and technical skills of its staff, human resources management, 
marketing, MIS, financial management and planning, and monitoring and evaluation 
functions. 
2. 
RAZUM Program. Provision of Sub-financing, through BICRO, to private firms 
and researchers selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Procedures, for implementation of RAZUM Program.  
- 17 -
3. 
Venture Capital. Provision of Sub-financing and technical assistance to venture 
capital funds, selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Procedures, for investing in technology financing and knowledge based companies 
managed on a commercial basis. 
4. 
Upgrading Technology Centers, Incubators and Research and Development 
Centers. Provision of Sub-financing to selected Technology Centers, Incubators and 
Research and Development Centers for Sub-projects selected in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Procedures.  
5. 
SPREAD. Provision of Sub-financing to eligible enterprises for implementation 
of the Sponsored Research and Development Program (SPREAD) in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Procedures. 
Part C: Unity Through Knowledge Fund
1. 
Establishment of the Unity Through Knowledge Fund (UKF) for promotion of 
professional exchanges and contacts and joint projects between Croatian scientists and 
researchers working abroad with their Croatian colleagues. 
2. 
Provision of Sub-financing to eligible Beneficiaries through the Unity Through 
Knowledge Fund administered by MSES in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Procedures. 
Part D: Project Implementation and Croatian Innovation System Group
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the PMU to manage the Project, including 
provision of equipment, technical assistance, studies and financial support for carrying 
out procurement, disbursement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, and 
conducting of a public outreach campaign on Project activities; and provision of financial 
services to cover Project auditing services.   
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for setting up and operations of a 
Croatian Innovation System Group under MSES and Croatian Accreditation Agency. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15, and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2010 through May 15, 2020 
 5%  
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
- 19 -
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the 
Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts for goods shall be awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement 
Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding.
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers and estimated to cost less than  
EUR 200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Limited International Bidding. 
2.  
National Competitive Bidding. Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions: 
- 21 -
(a) 
Procedures
The public bidding method (open tendering) shall apply to all contracts. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Narodne Novine)
and on the MSES’s website allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation 
and submission of bids. 
(b) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large contracts, invitations to pre-
qualify for bidding shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Official Gazette and on the 
MSES website a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of 
pre-qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements 
shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents, which shall be determined by 
a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through the use of a merit point system. Where pre-qualification 
is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract 
shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and 
financial requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents. 
(c) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower’s 
territory, shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the 
Bank’s satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial laws and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower’s Government. Said 
enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as 
other bidders. 
(d) 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods or services (other than consulting services), as defined in the 
paragraph 1.1 of the Guidelines, which shall contain draft contract and conditions of 
contract acceptable to the Bank. 
(e) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(i) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the 
bidder’s qualification information, technical and price bids, 
which shall be opened simultaneously at the public bid opening. 
- 22 -
(ii) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids. The name of the bidder, the total amount 
of each bid and any discounts offered shall be read aloud and 
recorded in the minutes of the public bid opening. 
(iii) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding 
documents and a merit point system shall not be used. 
(iv) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more 
than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be granted 
without the prior approval of the Bank. 
(v) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
(vi) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
(f) 
Rejection of All Bids
(i) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
(ii) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding 
shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(g) 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed 2% (two percent) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; and performance securities -- not more than 10% (ten percent). The wording of 
all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be acceptable to 
the Bank. 
3. 
Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines, including 
as a form of such shopping, the electronic bidding carried out by the Borrower’s Central 
State Administration Office for E-Croatia (Sredisnji drzavni ured za e-Hrvatsku) for 
procurement of computer and standard IT equipment, provided that technical 
specifications for said equipment shall be subject to the prior review by the Bank in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Section IV of this Schedule. 
- 23 -
4. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
5. 
Commercial Practices.
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 200,000 
equivalent per contract and to be financed under Sub-financing made for Sub-projects 
under Parts B.2, B.3, B.5, and C.2 of the Project, may be procured in accordance with 
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purpose of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than  
EUR 200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than EUR 160,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
- 24 -
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. 
Commercial Practices. Services estimated to cost less than EUR 160,000 
equivalent per contract and to be financed under Sub-financing made for Sub-projects 
under Parts B.2, B.3, B.5 and C.2 of the Project may be procured in accordance with 
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. 
7. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods and services (other than consultants’ services) procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding, Limited International Bidding or Direct Contracting; 
(b) the first contract awarded by each Project Agency under National Competitive 
Bidding procedure and the first contract awarded by each Project Agency under the 
Shopping Procedures; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 100,000 or more and provide by an individual 
estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 50,000 or more; (d) the first contract awarded by  
each Project Agency under the Least-Cost Selection method and all contracts above  
EUR 100,000 awarded under the said method, or under the Fixed-Budget Selection 
method, or under Commercial Practices procedures; (e) all Single Source contracts; and 
(f) each contract with the PMU staff or staff of a respective Project Agency or an RDI to 
be financed from the Loan proceeds.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Bank. 
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall delegate to MSES the responsibility for Project management 
and coordination, including the overseeing the implementation by Project Agencies of 
their respective Parts of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project shall be implemented by the PMU, the 
Project Agencies and selected RDIs in accordance with the provisions of the PIP and the 
Operational Procedures (with respect to Parts B and C.2 of the Project) and shall not 
amend, suspend, abrogate or waive the provisions of the PIP or the Operational 
Procedures without prior agreement with the Bank. 
3. 
During Project execution, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU within MSES 
with terms of reference and scope of responsibilities agreed with the Bank, qualified staff 
and other adequate resources, which shall be responsible for management of the Project 
activities, procurement, disbursement, financial management, monitoring, reporting and 
coordination with Project Agencies. 
4. 
The Borrower shall, through the PMU, cause each of the Project Agencies to: 
(a)  
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about May 31, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
- 26 -
5. 
 For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower, through 
MSES, shall select RDIs based on the criteria set forth in the PIP and agreed upon with 
the Bank, and shall enter into agreements with each selected RDIs with terms and 
conditions agreed with the Bank and which shall include, without limitation: 
(a) 
the obligation of RDI to carry out the activities to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the 
provisions of the PIP and this Agreement, and to provide promptly as needed, funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for carrying out such activities; 
(b) 
the obligation of RDI to procure goods and services to be financed out of 
the Loan proceeds in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the PIP; 
(c) 
the obligation of RDI to maintain a satisfactory financial management 
system, including maintaining records and accounts for expenditures financed from the 
proceeds of the Loan, and to conduct regular audits of such accounts and provide reports 
to the Borrower and to the Bank, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; 
and 
(d) 
the obligation of RDI to report to MSES and the Bank on the progress in 
carrying out the activities financed from the proceeds of the Loan and to enable 
representatives of the Borrower and of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to visit 
facilities or other sites financed from the proceeds of the Loan. 
6. 
Not later than December 31, 2005, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement, 
referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule, with at least one eligible RDI, acceptable to 
the Bank. 
7. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause each Project Agency to prepare and submit 
for the Bank’s approval business plans, including annual training and study tours plans in 
substance and format acceptable to the Bank. 
8. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary actions to enable BI and other RDIs to 
open and maintain their respective institutional renewal accounts, on terms and 
conditions agreed with the Bank. 
9. 
The Borrower, through MSES, shall complete a Science and Technology Policy 
Study in a format and substance as agreed with the Bank, endorse recommendations of 
the said study by October 31 2005, and implement the approved policy thereafter. 
- 27 -
10. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Unity Through Knowledge Fund shall operate 
in accordance with the policies and operating and monitoring procedures agreed with the 
Bank. 
- 28 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services, training, Sub-finacning, Severance Payments and 
operating costs required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of EUR 3,000,000 
in respect of the Special Account for Part to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to the amount of EUR 1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of EUR 5,000,000.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall  
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 29 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 30 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 31 -
wb218844 
M:\EMPLOYEE\Dubravka\LA Science W-3040 Apr06-04.doc 
May 10, 2004 6.4.2004 19:15
 
