CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7316-CH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Santiago Urban Transport Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 19, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7316-CH 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower is implementing a comprehensive plan for the 
improvement of urban transport in Metropolitan Santiago, as defined hereafter, and 
having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below, (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or 
services to be financed under the Loan, or on their importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is 
subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the 
use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any 
time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of 
- 2 -
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect 
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with 
such policy of the Bank.”; and 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Committee of Ministers” means Comité de Ministros para el 
Transporte Urbano de Santiago, the committee established pursuant to the Borrower’s  
Presidential Order No. 001, dated April 7, 2003, and composed of the Borrower’s 
Minister of Transport and Telecommunications, the Minister of Public Works, the 
Minister of  Housing and Urban Development, the Minister of Finance, the Executive 
Director of CONAMA, the Undersecretary of Transport, the Intendente of the 
Metropolitan Region, the Executive Secretary of SECTRA, the Coordinator of 
Concessions of the Ministry of Public Works and the SEREMITT-RM.  The Executive 
Secretary of this Committee is Transantiago-SE;  
 
(b) 
“EMP” means Environmental Management Plan; 
 
(c) 
“ESTRAUS” means “Modelo de Equilibrio Oferta-Demanda para Redes 
Multimodales de Transporte Urbano con Múltiples Clases de Usuario”, the locally 
developed transport demand forecast model; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“GEF Grant TF020392” means the grant given to the Borrower by the 
Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility, as 
documented in the Grant Agreement dated January 6, 2004; 
 
(f) 
“Metropolitan Santiago” means the area covering the Borrower’s 
province of Santiago and the territory under the jurisdiction of the Borrower’s 
municipalities of Puente Alto and San Bernardo; 
 
(g) 
“MINVU” means Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo, the Borrower’s 
Housing and Urban Development Ministry; 
 
- 3 -
(h) 
“MOP” means Ministerio de Obras Públicas,  the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Public Works; 
 
(i) 
“MTT” means Ministerio de Transportes y Telecomunicaciones, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications; 
 
(j) 
“MUSSA” means “Modelo de Uso de Suelo de Santiago”, the locally 
developed model to forecast and evaluate interactions between land-use and transport 
policies; 
 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Origin-Destination Survey” means the 2001 household survey carried 
out to know the trip patterns of the inhabitants of the Metropolitan Area of Santiago; 
 
(m) 
“PCU” means the Project coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in a letter from 
the Bank to the Borrower of even date hereof; 
 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
22, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
(p) 
“SECTRA” means Secretaría Interministerial de Planificación de 
Transporte, the Borrower’s inter-ministerial transport planning agency; 
 
(q) 
“SEISTU” means Sistema de Evaluación de Impactos sobre el Sistema 
de Transporte Urbano (Impact Evaluation System for Urban Transport), a system aimed 
at assuring that the baseline data regarding the Metropolitan Santiago transport system is 
maintained; 
 
(r) 
“SEREMITT-RM” means Secretaría Regional del Ministerio de 
Transportes y Telecomunicaciones - Región Metropolitana, the Borrower’s  regional 
offices of MTT; 
 
(s) 
“SERVIU” means Servicio de Vivienda y Urbanismo, the Borrower’s 
entity in charge of implementing the policies of MINVU; 
 
(t) 
“SIVU” means Sistema de Información de la Ventanilla Única, the 
information system for the “Single Window” function; 
- 4 -
(u) 
“Transantiago–SE” means  Secretaría Ejecutiva del Comité de Ministros 
para el Transporte Urbano de la Ciudad de Santiago, the Executive Secretariat of the 
Committee of Ministers for Urban Transport for Metropolitan Santiago; and 
 
(v) 
“Transantiago” means  Plan de Transporte Urbano para Santiago, the 
Borrower’s plan for the improvement of urban transport in Metropolitan Santiago. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four million 
eight hundred thousand Dollars ($4,800,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the Treasury (Tesorería General de la República)
may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
- 5 -
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
- 6 -
- 7 -
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out: 
 
(i) 
Part A.3, Part B (with the exception of B.3) Part C, Part D.2 
(jointly with MINVU) and Part E of the Project through 
Transantiago-SE; and 
 
(ii) 
under the overall financial management, coordination and 
supervision of Transantiago-SE, the remaining parts of the 
Project with the assistance of: 
 
(A) 
MTT in respect of Part B.3 and D.3 of the Project; 
 
(B) 
SECTRA in respect of Parts A.1 and A.2 and D.1 
(jointly with MINVU) of the Project; 
 
(C) 
MINVU in respect of Parts D.1 (jointly with SECTRA) 
and Part D.3 of the Project (jointly with MTT); 
 
(D) 
SEREMITT-RM in respect of Part D.4 of the Project; 
and 
 
(E) 
SERVIU in respect of Part A.4 and Part F. of the Project, 
 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, 
administrative, financial, transport, social and environmental standards and practices and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the Committee of Ministers, during the 
implementation of the Project, maintain a Project coordination unit (PCU) in  
Transantiago-SE, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, at all times 
headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
- 8 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause Transantiago-SE to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
(i)  
review with the Bank, within no more than two months after 
each such report’s preparation, the reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section; and 
 
(ii) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall  carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the procurement, financial and disbursement requirements thereof); 
 
(b) 
the  PCU staffing plan; 
 
(c) 
for each of the studies under the Project, the composition of the technical 
committees charged with, inter alia, defining and approving the bidding documents, 
evaluating the proposal and selecting the winners and supervising or monitoring the 
subsequent studies performed under the Project;  
 
(d) 
the terms of reference to prepare a single audit opinion;  
 
(e) 
the chart of accounts approved by the Bank; and 
 
(f) 
the FMR format approved by the Bank. 
- 9 -
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.05.  Within 24 months from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
ensure that SERVIU has completed the draft for the harmonization of the guidelines for 
preparation of EMPs for urban works mentioned under Part F.2 of the Project. 
 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.07. 
Within sixty days from the date of this Agreement, the Project 
Implementation Unit in Transantiago-SE shall be fully staffed.  In addition, Transantiago-
SE shall have contracted the temporary services of a Bank procurement guidelines’ 
specialist to assist in the preparation of the letter of invitation, packages and bid 
documents required, under terms of reference and  criteria for selection acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through Transantiago-SE, shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank),  audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
- 10 - 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
Transantiago-SE, shall prepare, and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
- 11 - 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
the resettlement policy framework providing how potential resettlement 
under Transantiago  would be carried out has been finalized in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
Section 5.02. The date November 17, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Teatinos 120 , piso 12 
 
Santiago, Chile 
 
Facsimile:   (56-2) 698-8903 
- 12 - 
Copy to: 
 
Transantiago – SE Secretaría Ejecutiva  
Nueva York 9, piso 10 
Santiago, Chile 
 
Facsimile: (56 2 ) 428 79 26 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 13 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Santiago, Chile, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHILE 
 
By /s/ Nicolás Eyzaguirre Guzmán 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: /s/ Gianni Lambertini Maldonado 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Countersigned on behalf of the 
 Controller General of the Republic of Chile 
 
By: /s/ Gastón Astorquiza Altoner 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods and 
800,000 
100%  
 
non-consultant 
 
services 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
 
 
 
services: 
 
(a) 
Parts A through F 
3,333,600 
100% 
 
(b) 
Part G 
420,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Operating Costs 
18,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Unallocated 
204,400 
 
(5) 
Front end fee 
24,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
-0- 
 
Rate Cap/Collars 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 
4,800,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental costs, which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project, for: (i) office equipment and related 
maintenance of the Borrower; (ii) refurbishment of office space, office utilities and office 
- 15 - 
supplies of the Borrower; and (iii) travel and per diem of personnel of the Borrower for 
Project implementation activities; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Training” means expenditures incurred in connection with 
overseas, local and on-the-job training, seminars and workshops for: (i) training materials 
and rental of training facilities; and (ii) fees, travel, and per diem of trainers, training 
institutions and trainees. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $600,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
March 11, 2005. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not subject to prior 
review by the Bank pursuant to Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
- 16 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in achieving an efficient 
and sustainable urban transport system for Metropolitan Santiago. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A:
General Urban Transport
1. 
Carrying out an analysis of the impact of the Project on transport demand.  
 
2. 
Carrying out an analysis and updating of the socio-economic ESTRAUS sub-
models and developing a sub-model to forecast the income, motorization rate and size of 
households in Metropolitan Santiago.  
 
3.  
Designing of the institutional framework for Transantiago.  
 
4. 
Carrying out a study for management of Metropolitan Santiago road 
infrastructure maintenance.  
 
Part B:
Public Transport
1. 
Carrying out a study for fare optimization for Transantiago’s full operation.  
 
2. 
Designing intermodal stations for Metropolitan Santiago.  
 
3. 
Developing a pilot to test Transantiago’s graphic information system 
(señalética).  
 
4. 
Carrying out the measurement of travel times associated with the Transantiago 
system and developing proposals for an action plan to reduce such travel times. 
 
5. 
Designing and implementing a Transantiago communication plan.  
 
Part C:
Environment
Designing an environmental, air quality, noise monitoring and information 
system focusing on public transport in Metropolitan Santiago.  
- 17 - 
Part D:
Land Use
1. 
Updating the MUSSA based on the results of the 2001 Origin-Destination Survey 
and the 2002 Population and Housing Census, and carrying out a social assessment of 
three congestion pricing alternatives in the framework of Transantiago.  
 
2. 
Carrying out an analysis and formulating recommendations for the urban 
architectural and operational design of the area of influence of Metropolitan Santiago 
transfer stations.  
 
3. 
Designing tools and procedures to achieve inter-institutional coordination of 
transport and land use decisions for Metropolitan Santiago.  
 
4. 
Carrying out a study to: (i) update the Graphic Information System of the SIVU; 
and (ii) upgrade the necessary legal framework to allow application of SEISTU and 
functioning of the one-stop process (Ventanilla Única) for mainstreaming procedures.  
 
Part E:
Social Aspects of Transport
1. 
Implementing the social mitigation program, identified under Part B.2 of the 
Project financed by GEF Grant No. TF020392, addressing the needs of existing public 
transport workers.  
 
2. 
Carrying out a social assessment of the impact of Transantiago on low-income 
segments of Metropolitan Santiago. 
 
Part F:
Mitigation of potential adverse impacts of transport infrastructure works
1. 
Designing and carrying out an institutional strengthening program in the area of 
involuntary resettlements, including the definition of a revised resettlement policy 
framework.  
 
2. 
Harmonizing provisions of the MOP and SERVIU guidelines for preparation of 
EMPs for urban works.  
 
Part G:
Project Management
Strengthening the PCU to carry out its obligations under the Project (including its 
financial and procurement responsibilities) through the provision of technical assistance, 
training, operating cost financing (as necessary) and equipment, as well as through the 
carrying out of Project audits.  
 
* * *
- 18 - 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each October 15 and April 15 
 
beginning October 15, 2010  
 
through April 15, 2020 
  
5% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 19 - 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 20 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower . 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. Goods and non-consulting services estimated to 
cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of National Competitive Bidding . 
 
2. 
Shopping.
Goods and non-consulting services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Goods and non-consulting services which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
- 21 - 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 22 - 
Section V.
Special Provisions
Part A:
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Schedule or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provision shall govern all 
procurement of goods and services (excluding consultants’ services).  
 
Part B:
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants: 
 
1. 
Consulting firms shall be selected on the basis of short-lists and not 
subject to an open competition selection process. 
 
2. 
The evaluation process and the related documents shall be kept 
confidential until the award of the contract is published. 
- 23 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.  
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
- 24 - 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
- 25 - 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
