CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4769 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(National Hydromet Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 11, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4769 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2005, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)  
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower (represented by MOF) and RHM and BEA, pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)  
“BEA” means the Bureau of Economic Analysis, an autonomous non-
commercial legal entity, established in the form of a foundation pursuant to the law of the 
Borrower on non-commercial entities, and operating in accordance with its founders’ 
agreement and Statutes registered with the Ministry of Justice of the Borrower on  
- 2 -
August 9, 1996 (Ministry of Justice Certificate of Registration No. UR-31), and under the 
governance of a Project Management Committee; being the organization authorized to 
implement the Project pursuant to the Agency Agreement; 
(c) 
“Capacity Building Program” means a program developed by RHM 
pursuant to Administrative Order No. 47 dated February 15, 2005, with the concurrence 
of the Project Management Committee, for the purpose of providing adequate expertise 
to RHM consistent with the objectives of the Project, by providing funds for the payment 
of services of experts to be engaged in the adaptation of certain software, as required in 
relation to the commissioning of new “high-end” computers to be provided under the 
Project;  
 (d) 
“Capacity Building Program Manual” means the manual approved by the 
Project Management Committee providing for the establishment and operational 
procedures of the Capacity Building Program, satisfactory to the Bank, as referred to in 
Section C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(e)  
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;      
(f)  
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(g)  
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
July 9, 2004, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(h)  
“Project Management Committee” means the committee responsible for 
preparation and implementation of the Project, which was established pursuant to the 
Order# 137 of RHM, dated October 11, 2004, and which is referred to in Paragraph A.2 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
(i)  
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the 
Project Management Committee, setting forth procedures and rules related to Project 
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(j)  
“RHM” means the Borrower’s Federal Service for Hydrometeorology 
and Environmental Monitoring (RosHydromet); and 
- 3 -
(k)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
the Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to BEA. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty 
million dollars ($80,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:   
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) 
by BEA on behalf of the Borrower to selected staff of RHM institutions in respect of 
qualifying activities undertaken by such staff to implement Part A.1 of the Project, to the 
extent that payments for such activities shall have been authorized and shall be deemed 
eligible for financing in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 of this Agreement.  
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account (the Special Account) in a bank acceptable to 
the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1.00%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall 
be payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
- 4 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1.00%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1.00%); (B) minus (or 
plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
- 5 -
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, shall: 
(a)   
carry out the Project through RHM, with the assistance of BEA, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
environmental practices;  
(b)   
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable 
BEA to perform the obligations in accordance with the Agency Agreement referred to in 
the provisions of this Agreement, and not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance; and 
(c)  
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.      
 
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: 
(a)  
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual 
and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
- 6 -
(b)  
through MOF and RHM, enter into an agency agreement with BEA (the 
Agency Agreement), on such terms as shall be acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include terms specifying the responsibilities of BEA in respect of procurement, financial 
management and disbursement aspects of Project implementation. 
 Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, technical services, consultants’ services and training 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be 
further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. The Borrower, in accordance with the 
established procedure, shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare, or cause to 
be prepared, financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause BEA to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses of funds and related 
statements), including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
- 7 -
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory 
to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
BEA to: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;    
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit 
for each fiscal year, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.    
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
- 8 -
cause BEA to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (Financial 
Monitoring Report, or FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
BEA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Agency 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Agency Agreement or the Project Operational Manual, or any 
provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in 
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project; and 
 
(c) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BEA will be able to perform its obligations under the Agency Agreement. 
 
- 9 -
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a)  
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
any of the events specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that  the Agency Agreement has been entered into between 
the MOF, RHM and BEA: 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
- 10 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation 
 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097 Moscow 
 
Russian Federation            
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
112008  
 
+7-095-925-0889 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
+1-202- 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By /s/ Alexander I. Bedritsky 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Kristalina Georgieva 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods, including                                                  
  
 
inland transportation and 
 
  
 
related insurance, and   
66,200,000 
 
60% 
 
technical services 
 
(2) 
Works 
5,250,000 
 
60%   
 
(3)      Consultants’ services 
3,450,000 
 
60%   
 
(4)      Training 
1,640,000 
 
60%   
 
(5) 
Capacity Building Program  
620,000 
 
60%   
 
Payments 
 
 
 
(6) 
Operating costs 
2,840,000
60%   
 
TOTAL 
80,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a)  
the term “operating costs” means reasonable incremental costs associated 
with the administration of the BEA, including: staff salaries, social charges, training, 
including study tours and seminars, office rent and utilities, transportation, maintenance 
and minor refurbishing of office and equipment, office equipment, furniture, materials 
and supplies, communication costs, support for information systems, translation 
expenses, bank charges, and travel, accommodation, and per diem costs of BEA staff 
directly associated with implementation of Project activities;  
- 12 -
(b)  
the term “training” means Project related costs and expenses incurred in 
connection with study tours, seminars, workshops, and other training activities not 
included under a goods, construction, or other service provider’s contract; and shall 
include travel, accommodation and subsistence costs for the representatives of ministries, 
administrations, and other relevant bodies on the federal and/or regional levels involved 
in the implementation of the Project; and  
(c) 
the term “Capacity Building Program Payments” means payments 
authorized in accordance with the Capacity Building Program Manual.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $350,000, may be made in respect of Category (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 2005; (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in 
paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (c) any amounts paid for Capacity 
Building Program Payments in respect of Category (5) of paragraph 1 above, until the 
Capacity Building Program Manual shall have been adopted by Project Management 
Committee, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of Section C of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
4.  
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) all operational costs; (b) payments from 
Capacity Building Program; and (c) for expenditures under contracts for goods, works, 
services, training not subject to the Bank’s prior preview, as stipulated in Section V of the 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve RHM’s capacity to provide 
meteorological and hydrological services and assure their effective and timely delivery to 
the Government and the public; and (ii) mitigate environmental risks to life and the 
economy from unfavorable weather conditions. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Modernization of Computing, Archiving and Telecommunications Facilities
Provision of goods, works and services and training for: 
1. 
upgrading of RHM’s weather and hydrological forecasting capacity, including  
provision of equipment for computing, archiving and retrieval of data, and 
communications infrastructure;  
2. 
contribution to the Borrower’s forecasting capability comprising the Borrower’s 
agreed contribution to the United Nations World Meteorological Organization’s global 
meteorological system.  
Part B: Upgrading of the Observation Networks
Provision of goods, services and training to upgrade the instrumentation of 
RHM’s data gathering facilities (surface meteorological and hydrological observations, 
upper-air sounding stations, meteorological radars, satellite ground data reception, 
regional hydrometeorological centers, climate change monitoring activities) to ensure 
high quality forecasts and long term climate change analysis. 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening, Improvements in the Dissemination of Information 
and Emergency Preparedness
Provision of goods, consulting services and training to improve RHM’s delivery 
of services, responsiveness to natural disasters, and institutional strengthening to make 
RHM a more viable, vibrant and client-oriented agency. 
- 14 -
Part D: Project Management, Training, and Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of goods, consultants services, training, and operating costs to RHM 
and BEA to support project implementation management and project audit.    
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2010. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning October 15, 2010 
  
 
 
through October 15, 2021 
  
3,335,000 
 
On April 15, 2022 
  
3,295,000 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Technical 
Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts for goods and works shall be awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding.  
 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of this Part A. 
(a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
- 17 -
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto may be applied to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding and the additional provisions set forth in the Annex 1 to this 
Schedule. 
2. 
Shopping. Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may, with the Bank’s prior review and no objection, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
Section III.
Other (Logistic) Services
When appropriate, a firm will be selected to provide logistic services in respect 
of training upon comparison of three price quotations presented by suitably qualified 
local contractors under agreed procedures. Individual contract values will normally not 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000. Larger contracts estimated to cost more than $50,000 
will be advertised nationally or internationally and bids for such contracts will be invited. 
Section IV.
Particular Methods for Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B: 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for an auditor to conduct the financial auditing 
statements of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of lowest cost in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
- 18 -
2. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under a contract awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
in particular those related to detailed design of meteorological, hydrological or related 
networks may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5.   
Eligibility of Government Owned Scientific Research Institutes. Short lists for 
assignments to be procured under the provisions of Parts B.2 or B.3 of this Section may, 
with the prior agreement of the Bank, include, or be entirely composed of, suitable 
government-owned entities (scientific and research institutes including entities within the 
RHM organizational structure), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000, and 
subject to the proviso that no entity may appear on a shortlist for any assignment where it 
is the direct beneficiary of the outputs of the assignment. 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to any prior approval by the Bank 
as may be indicated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
Section V.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for such contracts, 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, shall be subject to 
Prior Review by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
- 19 -
ANNEX 1  
TO  
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
 
Contracts for goods or works for which Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement 
allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations. In order to 
assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be 
modified as set forth in the following paragraphs. 
 
Eligibility 
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall 
be placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those 
imposed by primary boycotts. 
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on 
requirements to joint-venture with national firms. 
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration 
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified 
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating. 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of place of registration, 
ownership, small size, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source of labor, 
material or equipment. 
5. 
Government-owned entitles shall be eligible to participate in bidding for 
contracts if they can establish that they are legally and financial autonomous, operate 
under commercial law and are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
Standard Bidding Documents 
6. 
Until a modified versions of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been 
approved for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
- 20 -
Advertising Bidding Opportunities; Time for Bid Preparation 
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least thirty (30) days for bid preparation and 
submission of bids (excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelves goods or 
standard specification commodities or small value works).  
8. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurements involving large or complex 
contracts shall be advertised.  
9. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post 
qualification) shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so 
specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders 
which are deemed not qualified to bid shall not be further considered and shall be 
rejected. 
Bid Opening 
10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be 
considered and shall be returned unopened.  
Rebidding 
11. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received 
provided that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed 
capable of performing the contract.  
Bid Evaluation 
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so 
specified shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of 
bids for goods and works contracts.  
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be 
present during evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to 
any bidder until the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
- 21 -
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as 
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw 
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be 
applied. Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder. 
16. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior 
to contract award.  
 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Management and Implementation of the Project
1. 
RHM shall be responsible for overall management and implementation of the 
Project. 
2. 
RHM shall maintain the Project Management Committee for preparation and 
implementation of the Project comprising the Chairman of Committee (the Head of 
RHM), two Deputy Chairmen, technical coordinators and specialists, senior officials 
from RHM, and also from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic 
Development and Trade and BEA of the Borrower. The Chairman of the Committee will 
have overall responsibility for project management, including approval of action plans, 
major activities and budget. The Deputy Chairmen and Technical Project Coordinators 
will be responsible for making operational decisions, including management of 
equipment procurement and installation, technical reviews, resolution of issues and 
supervision of activities. 
3. 
BEA shall be responsible for procurement, financial management and 
disbursement aspects of implementation, including operation of the Special Account, 
claims for Special Account replenishment, and claims for disbursements of loan proceeds 
directly from the Bank. 
4. 
The RHM shall ensure that additional Project Coordinators are based in Obninsk, 
Novosibirsk, Khabarovsk and other regional implementation centers. Project 
Coordinators will oversee and coordinate regional project implementation activities. 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, BEA and 
regional Project Coordinators at all times function in a manner, and with staff, 
consultants, facilities and other resources necessary for the satisfactory management and 
implementation of the Project.    
B. 
Annual Reports and Work Program
The Borrower shall cause BEA to provide to the Bank, by April 1 of each year 
throughout the execution of the Project, an annual report on the progress of the project 
implementation, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
including a draft annual work program for the following year.    
- 23 -
C.   
Capacity Building Program under Part A of the Project
The Borrower shall ensure that:  (a) RHM shall adopt a manual (the Capacity 
Building Program Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the targeted use of 
funds and conditions for payments to highly qualified experts in respect of the Project 
activities to be supported by the Capacity Building Program; and (b) RHM shall carry out 
the Capacity Building Program activities in accordance with the Capacity Building 
Program Manual.  
D. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of the 
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in 
the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the 
Project. 
E. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an annual basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about May 1, 2008, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date;  
(c) 
review with the Bank, by September 15, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
(d)  
cause BEA to submit to the Bank on a semi-annual basis project progress 
reports for its review and approval.  
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services, training and operating costs required for  the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall  
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
- 25 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 26 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
paragraph 6 of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
