CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7293-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(National Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
Dated October 4, 2005 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7293-CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 2005 between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Borrower); 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower dated April 6, 
2005, which letter describes the strategies and objectives with respect to the Borrower’s 
program to reduce fiscal vulnerability to national disasters (the Program) and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such program;   
(B)  
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately ten 
(10) years, as part of an adaptable program lending sequence, to be utilized by the 
Borrower in the implementation of the Program; and 
(C)  
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
(a)  
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
- 2 -
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and 
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan;”  
(b)  
the text in Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”; and  
(c)  
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, 
or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing 
of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in 
respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required  to be consistent  
with such policy of the Bank;” 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
(a) 
“Annual Action Plan” means each plan referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; 
(b)  
“CGR” means Contraloría General de la República, the Borrower’s 
General Comptroller’s Office, or any successor thereto; 
(c) 
“Critical Imports” means the following imports identified in a Recovery 
Plan: construction materials; water, land and air transport equipment, including spare 
parts; agricultural equipment and inputs; school supplies and equipment; medical supplies 
and equipment; petroleum and fuel products; construction equipment and industrial 
machinery; communications equipment; seeds and fertilizer; agricultural equipment and 
- 3 -
inputs (excluding pesticides); food and water containers; and any other items which may 
be acceptable to the Bank; 
(d)  
“Decree 919” means the Borrower’s Presidential Decree dated May 1, 
1989 in which the Borrower establishes the national system for the prevention and 
attention of disasters; 
(e) 
“Disaster” means a serious harm or alteration of the normal living 
conditions in a specific geographic area within the Borrower’s territory, caused by a 
natural phenomenon and/or catastrophic effects derived from unintended human actions, 
that will require the special attention of the government and other humanitarian or social 
service entities; 
(f) 
“DNP” means Departamento Nacional de Planeación, the Borrower’s 
National Planning Department, or any successor thereto;  
(g) 
“DPAD” means Dirección de Prevención y Atención de Desastres, the 
Disaster Prevention and Control Directorate within the Borrower’s MIJ as defined here 
below; 
(h) 
ECOPETROL means ECOPETROL S.A.,
a
public sector entity, 
established by the Borrower’s Decree No. 1760 of June 26, 2003 and operating in 
affiliation with the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and Energy; 
(i) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(j) 
“IDEAM” means Instituto de Hidrología, Meteorología y Estudios 
Ambientales, the Borrower’s Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Environment 
Studies in affiliation with MAVDT; 
(k) 
“IDEAM Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement with IDEAM 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“INGEOMINAS” means Instituto Colombiano de Geología y Minería,
the Borrower’s Institute of Geology and Mining; 
(m) 
“INGEOMINAS Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement with 
INGEOMINAS referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
- 4 -
(n) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring indicators;  
(o) 
“Infrastructure Agencies” means any of the Borrower’s line ministries, 
sector institutions or public enterprises that carry out periodic strategic reviews of vital 
infrastructure in need of retrofitting or reinforcement to reduce its vulnerability to natural 
disasters; 
(p) 
“INVIAS” means Instituto Nacional de Vías; the Borrower’s National 
Institute of Roads; 
(q) 
“MAVDT” means Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo 
Territorial, the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, Housing and Territorial 
Development, or any successor thereto;   
(r) 
“MHCP” means Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereof; 
(s) 
“MIJ” means Ministerio del Interior y Justicia, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of the Interior and Justice, or any successor thereto; 
(t) 
“Municipality” means a Municipio, the political subdivision of the 
Borrower defined in Article 286 of the Borrower’s Constitution; 
(u) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(v) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
March 30, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation;  
(w) 
“Project Implementing Agencies” means collectively, INGEOMINAS, 
IDEAM, MAVDT, INVIAS, Infrastructure Agencies, MHCP and MIJ’s DPAD;  
(x) 
“Recovery Plan” means the plan to be prepared by the Borrower 
pursuant to Article 20 of Decree 919, and referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (ii) of this 
Agreement; 
- 5 -
(y) 
“Risk Reduction Investments” means a set of investments to be carried 
out by ECOPETROL, a Territorial Entity (as hereinafter defined) or an Infrastructure 
Agency (as hereinafter defined), as the case may be, under Part B.2 of the Project, 
consisting of one or more of the following activities: (i) reforestation and management of 
micro-watersheds; (ii) flood defense measures; (iii) flood plan management—irrigation, 
drainage, and land recovery; (iv) mitigation and prevention measures in urban and rural 
areas identified as high disaster risk; (v) disaster prevention; and (vi) any other activities 
which may be acceptable to the Bank in addition to, or in substitution of, those set forth 
above; 
(z) 
“Risk Reduction Investments Guidelines” means the guidelines referred 
to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; 
(aa) 
“SNPAD” means Sistema Nacional de Prevención y Atención de 
Desastres, the Borrower’s National System for Disaster Response Prevention and 
Attention created by the Borrower’s Law 46/88 and regulated under Decree 919/1989; 
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in  Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(cc) 
“Territorial Entity” means any of the Departamentos, Municipios or 
Territorios Indígenas (departments, municipalities, or indigenous territories), the political 
subdivisions of the Borrower defined in Article 286 of the Borrower’s Constitution. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
sixty million Dollars ($260,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
costs of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, upon previous approval by the Bank, for the 
purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account 
- 6 -
(the Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. The Borrower shall pay 
such fee no later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
 Section 2.09. (a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
- 7 -
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall:  
(a) 
carry out or cause to be carried out Part A.1 of the Project through 
INVIAS and MIJ’s DPAD;  
(b) 
cause IDEAM and INGEOMINAS jointly to carry out Part A.2 of the 
Project pursuant to the INGEOMINAS Subsidiary Agreement and  the 
IDEAM Subsidiary Agreement; 
(c) 
carry out Parts B.1, C.2 and D of the Project through MAVDT; 
(d) 
carry out Part B.3 of the Project through MAVDT and MIJ’s DPAD, 
with the assistance of DNP; 
(e) 
under the coordination of MAVDT, with the assistance of DNP, cause 
Part B.2 (a) of the Project to be carried out in collaboration with 
Territorial Entities, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank; 
(f) 
under the coordination of MHCP, cause ECOPETROL and the respective 
Infrastructure Agencies to carry out Part B.2 (b) of the Project, under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank; 
- 8 -
(g) 
carry out Part C.1 of the Project through MIJ’s DPAD and MAVDT with 
the assistance of DNP; and 
(h) 
carry out Part E.1 of the Project through MHCP and Part E.2 of the 
Project through MHCP and MIJ’s DPAD. 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, managerial, social, environmental and technical standards and practices, as well 
as in accordance with the Operational Manual and the Annual Action Plans, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall through MAVDT update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval.  
Section 3.03 (a) The Borrower shall make the corresponding portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan for the purposes of the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project 
available to INGEOMINAS and to IDEAM, as the case may be, according to agreements, 
one between the Borrower and INGEOMINAS and the other between the Borrower and 
IDEAM, satisfactory to the Bank.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall through MAVDT exercise its rights under the 
INGEOMINAS Subsidiary Agreement and under the IDEAM Subsidiary Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to enforce or waive any of said agreements or any 
provision thereof. 
Section 3.04. (a)  Without limitation to the provisions related to Project 
implementation set forth in this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through MAVDT and 
MHCP with assistance from DNP, issue, and carry out the Project (or cause it to be 
carried out, as the case may be) in accordance with a manual, satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Operational Manual), which shall contain the policies and procedures for the 
carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) detailed arrangements for the overall 
carrying out of the Project (including the procurement and financial management 
procedures to be followed during Project implementation by the Borrower and the Project 
- 9 -
Implementing Agencies); (ii) the guidelines to be followed by the Territorial Entities, 
ECOPETROL and the Infrastructure Agencies in the carrying out of the Risk Reduction 
Investments, including a description of the permitted investments and applicable 
procurement methods; (iii) the roles and responsibilities of the Project Implementing 
Agencies; (iv) the guidelines for the review, approval and preparation of disbursement 
requests for Risk Reduction Investments, including the description of the role played by 
CGR; (v) the guidelines for the preparation of the Annual Action Plans; and (vi) 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the activities carried out by the 
Territorial Entities and/or the Infrastructure Agencies and /or ECOPETROL that could 
possibly have a negative environmental impact such as, for example, through use of any 
pesticides, increase in deforestation, pollution of groundwater, negative impact on 
endangered species, increased soil erosion, impact on parks or protected areas, and 
encroachment of natural habitats. 
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
(c)  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, with the assistance of MHCP 
and DNP, shall: 
(a) 
 not later than March 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting in 2006, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, and to DNP for information 
purposes, an annual action plan (the Annual Action Plan), each said plan to include, inter 
alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by the Project Implementing Agencies 
during the twelve months immediately following the presentation of each said plan; and 
(ii) the procurement plan, disbursement schedule and financial forecast for each said 
twelve month period; and 
 (b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Action Plan, approved by the 
Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 3.06. 
(a) The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall maintain at all times 
during Project implementation the responsibility for the overall management, 
coordination, supervision and monitoring of Parts A, B.1, B. 2 (a), B.3, C, D, and E.1 of 
the Project and to this end shall act in accordance with a MAVDT administrative 
structure satisfactory to both the Borrower and the Bank, with staff in adequate numbers 
and with functions, responsibilities, qualifications and experience satisfactory to both the 
Borrower and the Bank, including a director, a procurement specialist and a financial 
management specialist. 
- 10 -
(b) 
The Borrower, through  MHCP, shall maintain at all times during Project 
implementation responsibility for the management of Parts B.2 (b) and E.2 of the Project, 
and to this end shall act in accordance with a MHCP administrative structure satisfactory 
to both the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
Section 3.07. (a)  Upon occurrence of a Disaster in response to which the 
Borrower proposes to withdraw Loan proceeds from the Loan Account in respect of 
Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall:  
(i) 
issue a presidential decree declaring the occurrence of a  
Disaster, as described in Article 19 of Decree 919, indicating the 
magnitude, geographical scope and possible effects of said 
disaster;  
(ii) 
prepare a plan acceptable to the Bank, to carry out recovery 
activities in response to the relevant Disaster, including an initial 
list of Critical Imports to be required for such recovery activities;  
(iii) 
submit a written application for withdrawal of funds available 
under said Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, in the form specified by the Bank and for 
expenses incurred up to two months before, and six months after, 
the declaration of occurrence of a Disaster referred in (a) above; 
and 
(iv) 
thereafter, carry out the recovery activities identified in the 
Recovery Plan observing the norms and procedures set forth in 
Decree 919, as well as those referred to, or contained, in this 
Agreement.  
 
(b) 
If the Bank believes that the execution of the Recovery Plan or any 
subsequent update is inconsistent with the recovery needs triggered by the Disaster, the 
Bank may, after consultation with the Borrower, suspend disbursements of Loan 
proceeds in connection with the Disaster in question and/or request that the Borrower 
refund to the Loan Account Loan proceeds previously disbursed from such Loan Account 
in connection with said Disaster. The Borrower shall promptly honor any such refund 
request. 
 
Section 3.08 
For the purposes of implementing Part B.2 (a) of the Project, the 
Borrower, through DNP, shall prepare and thereafter maintain, during the execution of 
the Project, guidelines for the review of eligible expenditures to be financed under the 
Risk Reduction Investments and to be carried out by the Territorial Entities, acceptable to 
- 11 -
the Bank, and to be included in the Operational Manual (the Risk Reduction Investments 
Guidelines).  
 
Section 3.09. 
Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, each March 31 and September 30 during Project implementation, starting with 
the report due not later than March 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester 
preceding the date of presentation of the report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the following calendar semester;  
 
(c)  
review with the Bank, DNP and the Project Implementing Agencies by 
May 15  and November 15 of each year of Project implementation, or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, starting in year 2006, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter; 
and  
 
(d) 
carry out an in-depth review (the Mid-Term Review) jointly with the 
Bank, DNP and the Project Implementing Agencies by May 15, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, on the progress achieved in the  implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.10. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MAVDT, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the sustainability of the Project; and  
- 12 -
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project, except for Part E. 2. of the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each of the Borrower’s fiscal years audited (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank), in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, by said auditors 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;   
- 13 -
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in the  
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and in 4.03 (a) (i). 
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.09 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, except with 
respect to Parts B.2 and E.2 of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.  
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
Section 4.03. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, in the event that any portion of Part 
E.2 of the Project be financed from the Loan: 
(i) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in no case later than  
six 
months after the end of any fiscal year in which 
disbursements occur under this Part of the Project, an audit 
report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and  
(ii) 
upon request from the Bank, provide a budgetary execution 
report (the Report) for the Recovery Plan, showing the categories 
of expenditure under the Recovery Plan. The Report shall 
- 14 -
include a statement whereby the Borrower declares that the 
expenditures therein were made in accordance with the Recovery 
Plan.  The Borrower shall also provide any other evidence of the 
financial activities pertaining to the Recovery Plan that the Bank 
may reasonably request.  
(b) 
No later than 18 months after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower 
during Project implementation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank annual reports on 
expenditures made during the respective Borrower fiscal year under Parts B.2 (a) and 
B.2 (b) of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. (a)  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that INGEOMINAS or IDEAM shall 
have failed to perform any of their obligations under  the INGEOMINAS Subsidiary 
Agreement or the IDEAM Subsidiary Agreement, respectively, and that the Borrower 
shall have failed to exercise its remedies fully under the INGEOMINAS Subsidiary 
Agreement or the IDEAM Subsidiary Agreement.  
 
(b) 
Without prejudice to the Bank’s rights contained in Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions, it is understood that, if the event specified in paragraph (a) of this 
Section shall have occurred, the Bank may choose, by notice to the Borrower, to suspend 
in whole or in part only the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for expenditures under Part A.2 of the Project in the case of INGEOMINAS and 
IDEAM. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued and adopted by the Borrower;  
(b)  
the MAVDT has been duly staffed with the positions mentioned in 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;  
- 15 -
(c) 
the INGEOMINAS Subsidiary Agreement and the IDEAM Subsidiary 
Agreement shall have been duly signed; and  
 (d) 
the Borrower has established a financial management system for the 
Project, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The date January 2, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 16 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
Plaza San Agustín  
Carrera 7-A, Número 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C.  
Colombia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
  
 
MINHACIENDA 
 
 
(571) 350-9344 
- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Alberto Carrasquilla Barrera 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ Sandra Suarez Pérez 
Ministry of the Environment, Housing  
and Territorial Development 
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ Sabas Pretelt de la Vega 
Ministry of the Interior and Justice 
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ Santiago Montenegro 
National Planning Department 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, works, services, 
 
training, and Operating 
 
costs under Parts A, B.1, 
 
B.3, C, D and E.1 
 
of the Project 
10,000,000 
100% 
 
(2) 
Goods, works, and services 
with respect to Risk Reduction 
Investments under Part B.2 
of the Project 
100,000,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Critical Imports for disaster 
 
emergency assistance under 
 
Part E.2 of the Project: 
150,000,000 
50% 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
260,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means reasonable expenditures, based on an annual 
budget previously approved by the Bank (other than those for consultants’ services), 
incurred by the Borrower to finance transportation costs and per-diem of trainers and 
trainees, workshops, rental of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and 
material under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures, 
based on an annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been 
- 19 -
incurred absent the Project, such as office utilities, travel costs, operation and 
maintenance of office equipment financed with the proceeds of the Loan, and non-
durable goods, all needed for the supervision of the Project.   
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:  
 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $52,000,000 equivalent may be made on 
account of payments made not earlier than January 1, 2004; 
 
(b) 
for any Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred 
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
under Category (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
for each particular Disaster until: (i) the Borrower has issued a Presidential Decree 
declaring the occurrence of a Disaster, as described in article 19 of Decree 919; and (ii) 
the Borrower has prepared and the Bank has approved the Recovery Plan (including an 
initial list of Critical Imports therefor).  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures with respect to Categories (1) and (2) 
of the table in Paragraph 1 of this Schedule: (a) under contracts for goods; (b) under 
contracts for works; (c) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms; (d) under 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants; (e) for Training and workshops; 
and (f) Operating Costs; that are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of the Procurement Plan.  
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the strengthening of its 
national capacity for reducing the fiscal vulnerability to national disasters and mitigate 
the negative impact of possible effects derived from such disasters.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:  
Part A: Disaster Risk Identification
1. 
Development of a comprehensive information system on disaster vulnerability, 
risk evaluation and risk reduction programs, through the purchase and installation of 
hardware and software and other necessary equipment, as well as the provision of 
specialized training on disaster prevention and management of disaster emergencies. 
2. 
Strengthening of data quality and analytic capacity for early warning and risk 
mapping related to hydrological, seismic and volcanic events, through the provision of 
technical assistance, necessary equipment and installation works needed for the updating 
of existing systems for monitoring catastrophic events. 
Part B: Risk Reduction
1. 
Improvement of the current practices of territorial planning by including better 
risk assessments, risk analyses, and preventive planning, through the provision of 
technical assistance to Municipalities, preparation of studies, and the provision of training 
and workshops. 
2. 
Carrying out of Risk Reduction Investments by: 
(a) 
Territorial Entities; and 
(b) 
Infrastructure Agencies and ECOPETROL. 
3. 
Strengthening of the Municipalities’ hazard risk reduction and management 
capabilities, through the provision of technical assistance, training and workshops, and 
the establishment and operation of an information sharing system to link Municipalities, 
municipal institutions and the national agencies members of SNPAD.  
- 21 -
Part C: Institutional Development
1.  
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of SNPAD, through the provision of 
technical assistance, specialized training and workshops. 
2. 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s national capacity to coordinate, implement, 
monitor and evaluate risk reduction, through the provision of technical assistance, 
necessary goods and specialized training. 
Part D: Awareness and Preparedness
Development and integration of disaster risk awareness activities as part of 
MAVDT’s environmental education program.   
Part E: Risk Transfer
1. 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to define strategies that improve and 
optimize the financial coverage of risks, through the provision of technical assistance and 
preparation of studies to assist Project Implementing Agencies in the evaluation of risk 
exposure and the formulation and implementation of cost-effective risk transfer 
arrangements. 
2. 
Financing of Critical Imports required due to a Disaster, as identified in a 
Recovery Plan. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
(Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
December 15, 2013 
10% 
 
June 15, 2014 
8% 
 
December 15, 2014 
8% 
 
June 15, 2015 
8% 
 
December 15, 2015 
8% 
 
June 15, 2016 
8% 
 
December 15, 2016 
8% 
 
June 15, 2017‘ 
8% 
 
December 15, 2017 
8% 
 
June 15, 2018 
8% 
 
December 15, 2018 
8% 
 
June 15, 2019 
10% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
- 23 -
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines, and the 
following additional procedures: 
 
Domestic Preference. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of 
Colombia. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
(a) 
Goods and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost 
less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
- 25 -
(c) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank for approval, appropriate model 
bidding documents. Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be 
used, said model bidding documents, as approved for bidding under the Project. Any 
change or departure from the model approved shall require Bank’s prior approval.  
(d) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to 
appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded 
the corresponding contract.  
 
(e) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents. 
(f)  
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or 
factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
(g) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.47 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
- 26 -
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and 
works (other than under Part B.2 (a) of the Project) estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Limited International Bidding.
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Limited International Bidding 
4. 
Imports. Critical imports may be procured under paragraphs 2.66 and 2.67 of the 
Procurement Guidelines.  Commonly traded commodities may be procured through 
organized international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement 
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.68 of the 
Guidelines.   
Critical Imports made by the Borrower or purchased by the Borrower from the 
private sector for: (i) construction materials estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (ii) water, land, and air transport equipment estimated to cost less 
than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract; (iii) school supplies and equipment estimated to 
cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) medical supplies and equipment 
estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract; (v) petroleum and fuel 
products; (vi) construction equipment estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent 
per contract; (vii) industrial machinery estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent 
per contract; (viii) communications equipment estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (ix) food and waste containers estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract; and (x) agricultural equipment and inputs estimated 
to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of footnote 50 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
5.  
Goods and Works under Part B. 2 of the Project.  Goods for Risk Reduction 
Investments estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and Works for 
Risk Reduction Investments estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured on the basis of Shopping as per paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.  Sole 
source contracting may be applied under Part B.2 (b) of the Project in response to high 
risk situations as defined in the Operational Manual according to paragraph 3.6 (e) of the 
Guidelines for works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent, goods and non-
consultant services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and 
consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000. 
6. 
Non-consultants services for Risk Reduction Investments estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract and Works for Risk Reduction Investments 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, which the Bank agrees meet 
- 27 -
the requirements for Direct Contracting, may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method.   
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of quality in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of a fixed budget in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for very standard and routine technical 
assignments which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of lowest 
cost in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection. (a) Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
- 28 -
(b) 
With respect to the consultant contracts under the Part B.2 (a) of the 
Project, single source selection shall be allowed without prior review for such contracts 
valued up to US$50,000. 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $750,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
- 30 -
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
- 31 -
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
