CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7396-EGT 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Mortgage Finance Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 12, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7396 - EGT 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated November 12, 2006, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF 
EGYPT (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fourteen million two 
hundred thousand Egyptian pounds (EGP214,200,000) (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of such fee. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time for any Interest Period shall be at a 
rate equal to Loan Currency Swap Rate plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
2
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a)
In order to facilitate prudent debt management, the Borrower may at any 
time request a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines, as such 
General Conditions may be modified to accommodate this Loan. 
 
2.10. 
The Project Implementing Entity is designated as the representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article II of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.11. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the 
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect to the Loan. 
 
3
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Project Implementing Entity, and is legally binding upon the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty days (180) days 
after the date of this Agreement for the purposes of Article IX of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the Under 
Secretary for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 
 
4
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
8 Adly Street, 
 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 391-2815 
 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
(202) 391-5167 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in supporting primary 
lenders in the financial market including banks and non-bank lenders to provide longer-
term, market-based mortgage loan financing for residential housing. 
 
The Project consists of the following part, namely the provision by the Project 
Implementing Entity of medium and longer-term financing to PMLs for Mortgage Loans 
on residential housing which satisfies the requirements of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the 
following: (i) payment of interest, charges and premium; and repayment of such 
amount in accordance with Article II of this Agreement; (ii) payment of any other 
charges which may be required by the Borrower; (iii) benchmark interest rates 
which shall be market determined; and (iv) subordination of the debt service of 
the Subsidiary Loan to payments by the Project Implementing Entity on its 
outstanding bonds (“Subsidiary Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
B. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Investment, establish by not later 
than January 15, 2007, and thereafter maintain the Advisory Committee within 
the auspices of the Ministry of Investment.  The said committee shall include the 
membership of senior representatives of the Borrower’s Ministry of Investment, 
Ministry of International Cooperation, Ministry of Housing, Ministry of Justice, 
and Ministry of State for Administrative Development, as well as the Central 
Bank of Egypt, the Mortgage Finance Authority, the Egyptian Survey Authority 
and the Project Implementing Entity.  The Advisory Committee shall be 
responsible for: (a) monitoring, reviewing and advising the Minister of 
Investment on any cross-cutting policy issues related to the efficiency of the 
mortgage market, property registration and enforcement of mortgage loan 
contracts which may arise during the implementation of the Project; and  
(b) conducting surveys to gauge the impact of the Project on various sectors 
affected by the mortgage market. 
 
7
2. 
By not later than January 31, 2007, the Borrower shall, through the Ministry of 
Investment in consultation with the relevant ministries, take all necessary steps to 
simplify, streamline and expedite the processes of residential property 
registration of the new urban communities included within the Program. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Investment, ensure that: (a) the 
Project Implementing Entity adheres at all times to prudent credit policies and 
asset-liability management policies that satisfy internationally accepted 
standards; (b) the Mortgage Refinancing Loans of the Project Implementing 
Entity shall be made subject to a one percent (1%) provision; (c) the debt 
securities of the Project Implementing Entity shall be eligible investments for 
banks, insurance companies and institutional investors, reflecting the high credit 
quality of such debt securities; and (d) the bonds of the Project Implementing 
Entity shall be included in the definition of liquid assets for banks. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Investment, monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one (1) 
month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than March 1, 2009. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Investment, maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through the Ministry of Investment, cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
8
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Investment, cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project 
Implementing Entity (or such other period proposed by the Project Implementing 
Entity and agreed to by the Bank). The audited Financial Statements for each 
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
The Borrower shall ensure that the procurement of the housing civil works, 
goods and equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Mortgage Loans shall be 
undertaken by the Beneficiaries in accordance with established local private sector and 
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to such Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in such Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Egyptian 
pounds) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) Mortgage Refinancing 
Loans 
 
213,664,500 
100% 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
535,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
214,200,000 
 
9
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for: (a) payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category 1 unless the Borrower shall 
have submitted to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank that the financial 
management system referred to in Section II (B.1) of this Schedule has been duly 
established in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2011. 
10 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2012 
 
through September 15, 2025 
 
3.57% 
 
On March 15, 2026 
3.61% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date. 
 
11 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
12 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions
1. 
“Advisory Committee” means the committee to be established and maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.B (1) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means any eligible borrower to which a PML (as such term is 
hereinafter defined) has made or proposes to make a Mortgage Loan (as such 
term is hereinafter defined) secured by a lien for financing the purchase of a 
residential housing unit or renovation thereof, and the term “Beneficiaries” 
means collectively all such borrowers that qualify as a Beneficiary. 
3. 
“Category” means the category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
4. 
“EGP” and “Egyptian pound(s)” each means the lawful currency of the 
Borrower. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Ministry of Investment” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Investment or any 
successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“Mortgage Loan” means a mortgage loan secured by a lien and made or proposed 
to be made by a PML (as such term is hereinafter defined) for the purpose of 
providing financing to a Beneficiary for the purchase of a residential housing unit 
or renovation thereof. 
 
8. 
“Mortgage Refinancing Loan” means a refinancing loan made or proposed to be 
made out of the proceeds of the Loan, by the Project Implementing Entity to a 
PML (as such term is hereinafter defined) which meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Participation Agreement” means an agreement entered into, or to be entered into 
between the Project Implementing Entity and each eligible PML (as such term is 
hereinafter defined) in accordance with Section I.B of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
13 
 
10. 
“PML” means any eligible participating mortgage lender to which a Mortgage 
Refinancing Loan is made by the Project Implementing Entity as set forth in the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement and as designated by the Project 
Implementing Entity as a mortgage originating and servicing institution, and the 
term “PMLs” means collectively all such participating mortgage lenders which 
qualify as a PML. 
 
11. 
“Program” means the national property registration reform program designed to 
change, through systematic title adjudication, survey and registration process, the 
property registration system in urban areas from a deeds recordation system to a 
title registration system. 
 
12. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Egyptian Company for Mortgage 
Refinancing, a financial institution established as an Egyptian joint stock 
company pursuant to Law No. 159 of 1981, Law No. 95 of 1992, Law No. 148 of 
2001 and the Executive Regulations thereof, for the purpose of providing a 
source of medium and longer-term financing for PMLs. 
 
13. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means Law No. 159 of 1981, Law 
No. 95 of 1992, Law No. 148 of 2001 and the Executive Regulations thereof. 
 
14. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
1. 
For the purpose of the terms of this Loan, any covenant under the General 
Conditions pertaining to any Currency Conversion or the setting of limits on the 
applicable Variable Rate by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on such Variable Rate, shall not be applicable. 
 
2. 
Section 3.04(c) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
3. 
The following definitions set forth in the Appendix to the General Conditions for 
Loans of the Bank, dated July 1, 2005, are modified to read as follows: 
 
“39. 
“Fixed Rate” means upon an Interest Rate Conversion from the 
Variable Rate, a fixed rate of interest applicable to the amount of the 
Loan to which said Conversion applies, equal to the interest rate 
reasonably determined by the Bank, by taking the average of the Loan 
Currency Reference Rates in respect of the days on which any amount of 
the Loan is withdrawn, weighted by the amount of the Loan so 
withdrawn on each such day.” 
 
14 
 
“40. 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread of 0.25% in 
respect of the Loan Currency.” 
 
“87. 
“Variable Rate” means, for this Loan, a variable rate of interest 
applicable to the Withdrawn Loan Balance equal to the sum of: (i) the 
initial Loan Currency Swap Rate; plus (ii) the Fixed Spread; provided, 
that upon an Interest Rate Conversion from the Fixed Rate, the variable 
rate of interest applicable to the amount of the Loan to which the 
Conversion applies shall be equal to the Loan Currency Reference Rate 
as reasonably determined by the Bank in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines.” 
 
4. 
The following definitions are added to the Appendix to the General Conditions 
for Loans of the Bank, dated July 1, 2005, to read as follows: 
 
“92. 
“Loan Currency Swap Rate” means, in respect of any Interest 
Period, the annual Egyptian pounds swap ask rate for cross currency 
interest rate swap transactions out of US dollars into Egyptian pounds 
with a duration as close to the duration of the Loan as possible without 
exceeding such duration, expressed as a percentage which appears on the 
Reuters screen BAREMEGP1 page [under the heading “swap”] at the 
close of business in Cairo, on the day that is two Banking Days prior to 
the first day of the relevant Interest Period, or in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, the day two Banking Days prior to the first or the 
fifteenth of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever 
day immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; provided, 
that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or the fifteenth 
day of such month, that day shall be the day two Banking Days prior to 
the date of the Loan Agreement. 
 
In the event Reuters screen BAREMEGP1 page is not published or swap 
ask rates having a duration of at least two years are not shown on said 
Reuters screen page, then the Local Currency Swap Rate will be 
determined by the Bank after consultation with the Borrower using 
either: (a) the most recent Local Currency Swap Rate published on the 
Reuters screen BAREMEGP1 page used by the Bank; or (b) the latest 
published yield of the bond issued by the Borrower having a duration 
closest to the duration of the Loan without exceeding such duration.” 
 
“93. 
“Banking Day” means any day on which commercial banks are 
open for general business (including dealings in foreign exchange and 
foreign currency deposits) in Cairo, London and New York.” 
 
15 
 
“94. 
“Loan Currency Reference Rate” means, in respect of any day 
on which an amount of the Loan is withdrawn by the Borrower, the 
annual Egyptian pounds swap ask rate for cross currency interest rate 
swap transactions out of the US dollars into Egyptian pounds with a 
duration as close to the duration of the Loan as possible without 
exceeding such duration, expressed as a percentage which appears on the 
Reuters screen BAREMEGP1 page [under the heading “swap”] at the 
close of business in Cairo, on the day that is two Banking Days prior to 
the day of such withdrawal plus the Fixed Spread. 
 
In the event Reuters screen page BAREMEGP1 is not published or swap 
ask rates having a duration of at least two years are not shown on said 
Reuters screen page, then the Local Currency Reference Rate will be 
determined by the Bank after consultation with the Borrower using 
either: (a) the most recent Local Currency Reference Rate published on 
the Reuters screen BAREMEGP1 page used by the Bank; or (b) the latest 
published yield of the bond issued by the Borrower having a duration 
closest to the duration of the Loan without exceeding such duration.”
 
