CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7333-PA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Mother and Child Basic Health Insurance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  May 4, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7333-PA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
- 2 –
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Management Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Authorized Health Service Providers” means the public and private 
health facilities and other entities that meet the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Guidelines to provide the EPS (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(c) 
“Capitation Payment” means a financial transfer, analogous to a health 
insurance premium, from the Borrower to the Participating Department (as hereinafter 
defined), in an initial amount equivalent to 5.60 Dollars per person enrolled (or eligible to 
be so enrolled in those cases where the amount is advanced pursuant to Section 3.09 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement) in the MCBI (as hereinafter defined) as of each relevant year; 
 
(d) 
“Department” means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per the 
Borrower’s Constitution, and the term “Departments” means all of said political 
subdivisions; 
 
(e) 
“DR” means Dirección Regional de Salud, any of the Borrower’s 
MSPBS (as hereinafter defined) Regional Health Directorates with jurisdiction over 
health service delivery in a Participating Department; 
 
(f) 
 “Eligible Department” means any of the Departments of Itapúa, San 
Pedro, Amambay, Canendiyú, Alto Paraná, Presidente Hayes, Boquerón, Concepción, 
Caazapá y Caaguazú, and any other Department that the Borrower and the Bank may 
agree from time to time; 
 
(g) 
“Eligible Population” means all women of child bearing age and all 
children under 5 years of age, within the territory of a Participating Department (as 
hereinafter defined); 
 
(h) 
“Enrolled Population” means the Eligible Population that has voluntarily 
enrolled in the MCBI (as hereinafter defined) in each Participating Department; 
 
(i) 
“EPS” means the Essential Package of Health Services that may be 
provided through MCBI to the  Enrolled Population; 
 
(j) 
“Financial Concurrent Auditor” means the independent financial auditor 
mentioned in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
- 3 –
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year from January 1 to 
December 31 of each year; 
 
(m) 
“Guaraníes” or “Gs.” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
 
(n) 
“Health Service Provider Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.08 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“ITU” means the insurance technical unit referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“MCBI” means the Borrower’s Maternal and Child Basic Health 
Insurance Program (Programa de Aseguramiento Materno Infantil); 
 
(q) 
“MCBI Fund” means the fund administered by the Borrower to support 
the MCBI; 
 
(r) 
“MCBI Fund Administrative Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement;  
 
(s) 
“MSPBS” means Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Social Welfare; 
(t) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter of 
even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;  
 
(u) 
“Operational Guidelines” means the guidelines referred to in Section 
3.07 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.07 (a) 
(ii) of this Agreement; 
 
(w) 
“Participating Department” means any Eligible Department that has 
fulfilled the requirements of the Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual to  
participate in, and receive funds under the Project; 
 
(x) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated June 
24, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
- 4 –
(y) 
“Regional and Local Health Councils” means the councils created by 
Law  1032/96 and regulated under Decree 19.996/98, with participation of 
representatives of MSPBS, civil society and departmental or municipal authorities, as the 
case may be; 
 
(z) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(aa) 
“Superintendencia de Salud”
means Health Superintendency, the 
Borrower’s entity in charge of certifying public and private health service providers, 
established by the Borrower’s Law 1032/96 and regulated by the Borrower’s Decree 
20.553/98; 
 
(bb) 
“Technical Concurrent Auditor” means the independent technical auditor 
mentioned in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement; and 
 
(cc) 
“UAPI” means Unidad de Administración de Préstamos Internacionales,
the Borrower’s international loans administration unit within the MSPBS specialized in 
financial management and procurement procedures for all multilateral projects being 
implemented by the MSPBS and established further to Ministerial Resolution 1385 of 
November 18, 2004. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty two 
million Dollars ($22,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of Capitation Payments, works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Upon confirmation from the Bank, the Borrower may, for the purposes 
of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
- 5 –
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2011 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15  in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
- 6 –
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
Section 2.10 
The Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare or any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MSPBS, with the assistance 
of the Participating Departments through their respective DRs, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, social, health care 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of assisting MSPBS in the overall management of 
the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain throughout the execution of the Project, 
- 7 –
within MSPBS, a project administration unit (the UAPI) with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; (b) create and maintain throughout the execution 
of the Project, within MSPBS, an insurance technical unit (the ITU) with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts 
and other personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank; and (c) create and maintain throughout the execution of the Project, an 
administrative unit for the MCBI Fund (the MCBI Fund Administrative Unit) with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with personnel in 
number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of implementing Part A.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall prepare, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a list 
of eligible health services which constitute the EPS and prices for such services (the 
Nomenclador), to be provided by the Authorized Health Service Providers, acceptable to 
the Bank.  
 
Section 3.06.  The Borrower and the Bank shall jointly review once every year 
during Project implementation, beginning on January 1, 2007, the Capitation Payments 
amounts, the eligible health services and prices for such services included in the 
Nomenclador  referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement and adjust as necessary in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation of the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with: 
 
(i) 
operational guidelines for Part A.1 of the Project (the 
Operational Guidelines), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
contain, inter alia:
(A) 
the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for 
the personnel of the ITU responsible for Project 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for the 
Capitation Payments; 
 
(C) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; 
 
(D) 
draft models for the Annual Management Agreement 
and the Health Service Provider Agreements; 
 
(E) 
criteria for the conversion of Eligible Population into 
Enrolled Population, including procedures, activities and 
monitoring indicators for the enrollment of said 
- 8 –
population, (such criteria shall also ensure adequate and 
culturally appropriate access by indigenous peoples to 
the MCBI); 
 
(F) 
criteria for the conversion of Eligible Departments into 
Participating 
Departments, 
including 
procedures, 
activities and monitoring indicators for the compliance 
of the requirements for such conversion; 
 
(G) 
procedures for deletion from lists of the Enrolled 
Population of children as they become older than five 
years; and 
 
(H) 
criteria for selection of Authorized Health Service 
Providers 
and 
their 
certification 
by 
the  
Superintendencia de Salud; and 
 
(ii) 
an operational manual for Parts A.2 through E of the Project (the 
Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
contain, inter alia: (A) the procedures for procurement of works, 
goods and services, as well as for financial management and 
audits of the Project; and (B) the flow and disbursement 
arrangements of Project funds except for funds under Part A.1 of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual and the Operational Guidelines, or any 
provision thereof.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and 
those of the Operational Manual and the Operational Guidelines, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.08. 
For the purposes of implementing Part A.1 of the Project the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
each year during Project implementation, enter into an agreement (the 
Annual Management Agreement) with each Participating Department through its 
respective DR, setting forth the technical, financial, administrative and  fiduciary aspects 
of the national and departmental participation in the implementation of the Project, all on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;  
 
(b) 
cause each Participating Department (through the respective Annual 
Management Agreement) to: (i) enter into an agreement with an Authorized Health 
Service Provider (the Health Service Provider Agreement), setting forth, inter alia, the 
Participating Department’s payment mechanisms with respect to each of the Authorized 
Health Service Providers; and (ii) ensure that payments to each Authorized Health 
- 9 –
Service Provider are solely in payment for services provided, and at prices, that are 
included in the Nomenclador referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
(i) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each 
Annual Management Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; (ii) cause each 
Participating Department to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each 
Health Service Provider Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (iii) except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Annual Management Agreement. 
 
Section 3. 09. (a) The Borrower shall make Capitation Payments available to 
an Eligible Department, but only after said Eligible Department has fulfilled the 
requirements set forth in the Operational Guidelines in order to become a Participating 
Department and is party to an Annual Management Agreement that is in effect. Such 
Capitation Payments shall be made in the following manner: 
 
(i) 
within the first twelve months after the date on which an Eligible 
Department converts into a Participating Department, the 
Borrower shall make available to such Participating Department 
an amount from the Loan calculated on the basis of estimated 
Eligible Population in such Participating Department based on 
the 2002 census as reflected in the Annual Management 
Agreement for such Participating Department; and 
 
(ii) 
after said first twelve months, the Borrower shall disburse the 
Capitation Payment every quarter, or with such frequency as 
agreed from time to time by the Borrower and the Bank, 
immediately after the Participating Department has sent to the 
Borrower the registry with said Participating Department’s 
Enrolled Population as of the previous year and the Borrower, 
through ITU, has certified and validated said registry.  
 
(b) 
For the purposes of the certification and validation procedure referred to 
in (a)(ii) above, the Borrower shall appoint and thereafter maintain during the execution 
of the Project, unless the Bank otherwise agrees, an independent financial auditor (the 
Financial Concurrent Auditor) and an independent technical auditor (the Technical 
Concurrent Auditor) responsible for producing quarterly audit reports on the technical 
and administrative functioning of the MCBI in the Participating Departments, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  Said auditors shall provide  such audit 
reports to the Borrower and the Bank within 30 days after the end of each relevant 
quarter. 
 
- 10 –
(c) 
In case that a Technical Concurrent Auditor or Financial Concurrent 
Auditor shall have determined at any time that: 
 
(i) 
any Capitation Payment to a Participating Department was made 
based on inaccurate information of Enrolled Population provided 
by such Participating Department; or 
 
(ii) 
a Participating Department has issued an instruction of payment 
for a service not provided or at a price not included in the 
Nomenclador referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; or 
 
(iii) 
a Participating Department has carried out an action that the 
Borrower and the Bank consider as such Participating 
Department not complying with its obligations under the relevant 
Annual Management Agreement or Health Service Provider 
Agreement, such Participating Department shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Borrower provide instructions for deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such 
Capitation Payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
inaccurately justified, without the prejudice to the right of the 
Borrower to suspend the right of said Participating Department 
to receive funds under Part A.1 of the Project. 
 
Section 3.10. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 15 and July 15 of each year, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by January 31 or July 31 of each year, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
- 11 –
Section 3.11. 
The Borrower shall conduct a mid-term review with the Bank of 
the progress of the Project, by not later than when 50% of the resources of the Loan have 
been disbursed or two and a half years of Project implementation, whichever comes first, 
based on an assessment with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, as well as the 
reports referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.12. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than August 1 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting August 1, 2005, furnish to the Bank for its 
approval, an annual implementation plan, each said plan to include, inter alia: (i) the 
Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower  during the calendar year following 
the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the updated  Procurement Plan for each said 
calendar year; and (b) thereafter implement each said annual implementation plan, 
approved by the Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank),  audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
- 12 –
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
ensure (as the case may be) that all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year after the end of 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) ensure (as the case may be) that such statements of expenditure are 
included in any audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to  
paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.10 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through 
MSPBS, prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter 
 
- 13 –
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Operational Manual shall have been finalized in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.02. The date August 2, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Chile 128 c/ Palma 
 
Asunción, Paraguay 
Facsimile:   (595-21) 448 283 
 
Copy to: 
 
Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social 
Silvio Pettirossi y Brasil 
 
Asunción, Paraguay 
 
Facsimile: (595 21) 214741 
 
- 14 –
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 15 –
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
By /s/ Ernst Bergen 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 16 –
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
68,000 
100%  
 
(2) 
Goods  
3,732,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
1,789,000 
100% 
 
and Audits 
 
(4) 
Training 
3,970,000 
100%  
 
(5) 
Capitation Payments 
8,288,000 
80% first two 
 
years up to a 
 
maximum of 
 
$2,000,000; 
 
and 60% 
 
thereafter 
 
(6) 
Operating Costs 
2,100,000 
100% 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
 1,998,000 
 
(8) Front-end fee 
 55,000 
Amount due under  
 
Section 2.04 of this  
 
Agreement 
 
_________
TOTAL 
22,000,000.
- 17 –
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 
(a) 
the term “operating costs” means reasonable ITU and UAPI recurrent 
expenditures, which would not have been incurred absent the Project, including office 
supplies and maintenance, communications, vehicle operation and rental, transport and 
per diems and travel expenses for ITU, UAPI staff and mobile  teams under Part A.2 of 
the Project; and  
 
(b) 
the term “training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower to 
finance reasonable expenditures for rental of training facilities, materials and equipment, 
non-consultant training services and per diems of trainers and trainees. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,200,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
July 1, 2005; and (b) payments in respect of Category 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 to this Schedule; until: (i) the MCBI Fund Administrative Unit shall have been duly 
established; (ii) the Technical Concurrent Auditor and Financial Concurrent Auditor shall 
have been contracted; (iii) the Operational Guidelines shall have been finalized in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) with respect to each Participating Department, the 
relevant Annual Management Agreement shall have been duly executed; and (v) the 
financial management system for the MCBI Fund shall have been established in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; and (d) services of consulting firms and training under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
- 18 –
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce infant and maternal mortality through: 
(a) the  increase of the effective access to maternal and child health services by the 
Borrower’s targeted population; and  (b)  the creation and implementation of the MCBI.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A:
Implementation of the MCBI 
1. 
Making Capitation Payments for MCBI services. 
 
2. 
Reaching dispersed and isolated populations in Participating Departments 
through the delivery of EPS, enrollment of population in MCBI and provision of health 
education services.  
 
Part B:
Strengthening of Stewardship and Capacity
1. 
Strengthening the MSPBS’ capacity to launch, regulate, manage and monitor the 
MCBI  through the: 
 
2. 
(a) 
establishment of the ITU; and 
 
(b) 
development of the MSPBS’ service purchasing capacity, as well as 
setting up of managerial and administrative systems for overseeing the implementation of 
the MCBI  and the delivery of the EPS by Authorized Health Service Providers. 
 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity and the service quality needed to launch and 
implement the MCBI and to deliver the EPS, through the: 
 
(a) 
establishment of start-up/monitoring teams to enhance the DRs’ and 
Authorized Health Services Providers’ technical, managerial, service quality and 
supervision capacity; 
 
(b) 
implementation of the remedial actions suggested by the start-
up/monitoring teams under 2(a) above; and 
 
(c) 
provision of basic waste management, transport and communication 
equipment for the health facilities to deliver the EPS.  
 
- 19 –
Part C:
Communication and Community Outreach
1. 
Disseminating of information about the Project’s activities in the Participating 
Departments, as well as  promoting the  Eligible Population’s enrollment in the MCBI, 
with special attention to the dissemination of information regarding services available to 
Enrolled Population including indigenous peoples groups, through the provision of 
technical assistance to: (a) Regional and Local Health Councils to establish social 
monitoring and auditing mechanisms for the MCBI; (b) support Authorized Health 
Services Providers through the enrolment and training of community health workers; and 
(c) Regional and Local Health Councils that request support to establish social 
pharmacies. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of selected studies to monitor and evaluate the results of the 
activities under this Part C of the Project.  
 
Part D: MCBI Program Monitoring, Evaluation and Concurrent Auditing
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of MSPBS to: 
 
(a) 
monitor, evaluate and audit the MCBI, through the provision of technical 
assistance and support for the carrying out of auditing services under the Project, 
purchasing of software and equipment, and the provision of specialized training; and 
 
(b) 
develop and implement operational and strategic changes to increase the 
effectiveness of the MCBI. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of technical and financial concurrent audits and standard financial 
audits. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of end-of-Project evaluation activities, including a national 
demographic and sexual and reproductive health survey scheduled for 2010-2011.  
 
Part E: Project Management
Strengthening of the ITU through the provision of technical assistance, 
equipment and the financing of operating costs.  
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2011. 
- 20 –
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2010 
 
through November 15, 2027 
2.78% 
 
On May 15, 2028 
2.70% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
- 21 –
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 22 –
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Shopping. Works  estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract  and goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
 
- 23 –
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies.
Vehicles regardless of cost, may be 
procured directly from  the Inter Agency Procurement Services (IAPSO), vaccines 
regardless of cost may be procured directly from the Pan American Health Organization 
(PAHO), and drugs regardless of cost may be procured directly from the United Nations 
Procurement and Assembling Center (UNIPAC), in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for assignments estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Individual Consultants.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
(a) 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph:   
 
- 24 –
(i) 
 Contracts with a total duration of six months or more shall be 
advertised in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines; and. 
 
(ii) 
 except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
cancel,  waive or fail to enforce any contract procured under this 
Part B. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in A.1 above;  (b) the first two 
contracts in each year procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in B.1 and 
B.2 above;  and (c) with respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in A above and estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Bank.  
 
- 25 –
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, Capitation Payments and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of US$2,200,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of US$500,000  until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$2,200,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
- 26 –
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
- 27 –
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
