CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4816-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Follow-Up Project to the Phase I of the Renewable Energy Scale-Up Program) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 26, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
22
LOAN NUMBER 4816-CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 2006, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has entered into a Loan Agreement with the Borrower 
on August 11, 2005 to finance a Renewable Energy Scale-up Program – Phase I; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 
(C) 
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Inner Mongolia North Long 
Yuan Wind Power Company (IMNLYWPC); and Part B of the Project will be carried out 
by Zhejiang Province (Zhejiang), in each case with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to IMNLYWPC, through Inner 
Mongolia Autonomous Region and Zheijang Province, respectively, and as set forth in 
this Agreement. 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, IMNLYWPC 
and Zhejiang Province (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
2
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans.  To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Dam Safety Panel” means the panel to be maintained in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.  
(c) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: 
(i) 
the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of 
income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such 
person must move to another location; or  
 
(ii) 
the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks 
and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the 
livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
3
(d) 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the framework dated 
January 15, 2005, prepared by Zhejiang and referred to in paragraph (5)(i) of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures for carrying out 
environmental impact assessments and preparing environmental management plans for 
Small Hydropower Sub-projects to be identified under Part B of the Project, as said 
Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.  
(e) 
“Environmental 
Management 
Plan” 
means 
the 
environmental 
management plan prepared for Part A of the Project, dated November 24, 2004, adopted 
by IMNLYWPC, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, 
setting out the environmental protection measures in respect of Part A of the Project, as 
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement. 
 
(g) 
“IMNLYWPC” means Inner Mongolia North Long Yuan Wind Power 
Company, a corporation established and existing under the laws of the Borrower in 
accordance with: (i) its Business License No. 1526311000205, dated November 22, 2004, 
issued by the Chayou Zhong County Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau; 
and (ii) its Charter, dated July 2004; and any successor thereto. 
 
(h) 
“Inner Mongolia” means the Borrower’s Autonomous Region of Inner 
Mongolia, and any successor thereto. 
 
(i) 
“Pilot Provinces” means, collectively, Inner Mongolia and Zhejiang; and 
the “Pilot Province” means either of the Pilot Provinces.  
(j) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank, 
IMNLYWPC, and Zhejiang of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement.  
(k) 
“Provincial Hydropower Development and Management Center” means 
the center to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.  
(l) 
“Provincial Project Office” means the office to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.  
(m) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the resettlement action plan 
prepared for Part A of the Project, dated January 28, 2005, referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures 
governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
4
Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank.  
(n) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the policy framework prepared 
for Part B of the Project, dated January 15, 2005, and referred to in paragraph 4 of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the policies and procedures for land 
acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for 
the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required for the Small Hydropower 
Sub-projects to be identified under Part B of the Project, as said policy framework may 
be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
(o) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of IMNLYWPC, Part 
A of the Project, and in respect of Zhejiang, Part B of the Project.   
(p) 
“Respective Procurement Plans” means, in respect of: 
(i) 
IMNLYWPC, the Procurement Plan for Part A of the Project, 
dated January 25, 2005,  covering the initial 18 month period (or 
longer) of Project implementation for Part A of the Project; and  
(ii) 
Zhejiang, the Procurement Plan for Part B of the Project, dated 
November 25, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or 
longer) of Project implementation for Part B of the Project;  
as such plans shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02(b) to the Project Agreement, to cover 
succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of implementation of Part A 
and Part B of the Project. 
(q) 
“Respective Project Implementation Plan” means in respect of: 
 (i) 
IMNLYWPC, the Project Implementation Plan for Part A of the 
Project, dated January 25, 2005, adopted by IMNLYWPC; and 
(ii) 
Zhejiang, the Project Implementation Plan for Part B of the 
Project, dated November 25, 2005, adopted by Zhejiang;  
as such plans may by amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank.     
(r) 
“Small Hydropower Sub-project” means a specific small hydropower 
investment project, each not exceeding 25MW, selected for financing under Part B of the 
Project in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and the 
5
“Small Hydropower Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Small Hydropower Sub-
projects.  
(s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.  
(t) 
“Sub-loan” means a loan to be made to a beneficiary out of the proceeds 
of the Loan to finance part of the cost of goods, works, and services required for a Small 
Hydropower Sub-project; and “Sub-loans” means, collectively, all such Sub-loans. 
(u) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between Inner Mongolia and IMNLYWPC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this  
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said 
agreement.  
 
(v) 
“Zhejiang” means the Borrower’s Province of Zhejiang, and any 
successor thereto. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to IMNLYWPC and Zhejiang. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty six 
million three hundred thirty thousand Dollars ($86,330,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: 
(i) 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for 
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; 
(ii) 
for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on 
account of withdrawals made under Sub-loans to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for Part B 
of the Project in respect of which withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested; and 
6
(iii) 
in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project open and 
maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fees as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
7
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower  
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end and without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause each of IMNLYWPC and Zhejiang to 
carry out its Respective Part of the Project, and to cause them to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all their respective obligations therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each of IMNLYWPC and 
Zhejiang to perform its respective obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
8
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Inner 
Mongolia and Zhejiang on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.  
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause Inner Mongolia to onlend such amounts to 
IMLNYWPC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between Inner 
Mongolia and IMLNYWPC, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include the principal terms as specified in paragraph (b) of this Section 3.01.  
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the arrangements with Inner 
Mongolia and Zhejiang, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and shall cause Inner Mongolia not to 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plans.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause each of IMLNYWPC and Zhejiang to update 
its Respective Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the 
preceding Procurement Plans, for the Bank’s approval. 
9
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by IMNLYWPC, and 
Zhejiang, in respect of its Respective Part of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Zhejiang and IMNLYWPC, to 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, financial management systems, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect their operations 
and financial conditions and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to its Respective Part of the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause Zhejiang and IMNLYWPC respectively, to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case no later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
10
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.  
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and  
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Either IMNLYWPC or Zhejiang shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either IMNLYWPC or Zhejiang will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
11
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by each of Zhejiang and IMNLYWPC and is legally binding upon 
Zhejiang and IMNLYWPC in accordance with its terms.  
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
12
 
Cable address: 
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(1-202) 
477-
6391 
Washington, D.C.    
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
13
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $1,900,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2005;  
(b) 
in respect of Category (1) set forth in the table of paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, until the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of receipt of evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank that:  
(i) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been executed on behalf of Inner Mongolia and IMNLYWPC, 
and a legal opinion acceptable to the Bank has been furnished to 
the Bank, certifying that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
on behalf of, both the Inner Mongolia and IMNLYWPC, and is 
legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its terms;   
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed 
in Dollars)
% of 
 Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Goods  
 
under Part A of the Project   
 
66,832,475 
100% 
(2) Sub-loans 
 
under Part B of the Project 
 
19,281,700 
100% of the Sub-loan 
amount disbursed 
(3) Fee 
 
215,825 
 
Amount due under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement 
TOTAL  
 86,330,000
14
 
(ii) 
a financial management manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been prepared and adopted by IMNLYWPC for  carrying out of 
Part A of the Project; and  
(iii) 
IMNLYWPC’s shareholders have issued letters confirming that 
they will provide equity contributions in total in an amount of at 
least $20,050,000 equivalent to IMNLYWPC no later than the 
date of entry into service of the wind power plant to be built 
under Part A of the Project.  
(c) 
in respect of Category (2) set forth in the table of paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, until the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of receipt of evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank that a financial management manual, acceptable to the Bank, has 
been prepared and issued by Zhejiang for carrying out of Part B of the Project.  
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for Sub-loans under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
 
15
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to demonstrate early success 
in large scale renewal energy development in the Pilot Provinces with participation of 
private sector developers. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:  
Part A:
Huitengxile Wind Farm
Developing a wind farm, in Huitengxile, Inner Mongolia, consisting of:  
1. 
Installation of wind turbines with an aggregate capacity of about 100 megawatt 
(MW) and associated civil and electrical works;  
2. 
Expansion of an existing switchyard and a control room;  
3. 
Extension of a 110kV transmission line from the wind farm to the Desheng Sub-
station; and  
4. 
Upgrading the Desheng Sub-station. 
Part B:
Zhejiang Small Hydropower Sub-projects
Carrying out Small Hydropower Sub-projects, consisting of: 
1. 
Rehabilitation of about eleven (11) small hydropower plants to increase the 
aggregate capacity from about 40MW to about 52MW. 
2. 
Construction of about seven (7) hydropower plants with an aggregate capacity of 
about 16MW.  
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2010. 
16
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in 
U.S. Dollars)1
October 15, 2011 
 
2,050,000 
April 15, 2012 
 
2,095,000 
October 15, 2012 
 
2,140,000 
April 15, 2013 
 
2,190,000 
October 15, 2013 
 
2,240,000 
April 15, 2014 
 
2,290,000 
October 15, 2014 
 
2,340,000 
April 15, 2015 
 
2,395,000 
October 15, 2015 
 
2,445,000 
April 15, 2016 
 
2,500,000 
October 15, 2016 
 
2,555,000 
April 15, 2017 
 
2,615,000 
October 15, 2017 
 
2,675,000 
April 15, 2018 
 
2,735,000 
October 15, 2018 
 
2,795,000 
April 15, 2019 
 
2,855,000 
October 15, 2019 
 
2,920,000 
April 15, 2020 
 
2,985,000 
October 15, 2020 
 
3,055,000 
April 15, 2021 
 
3,120,000 
October 15, 2021 
 
3,190,000 
April 15, 2022 
 
3,265,000 
October 15, 2022 
 
3,335,000 
April 15, 2023 
 
3,410,000 
October 15, 2023 
 
3,485,000 
April 15, 2024 
 
3,565,000 
October 15, 2024 
 
3,645,000 
April 15, 2025 
 
3,725,000 
October 15, 2025 
 
3,810,000 
April 15, 2026 
 
3,905,000 
 
1 The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.  
 
17
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Category” means Category (2) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
18
 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. (a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
19
 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
