CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7353-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Education Improvement Project - PROMER) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 23, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7353-AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 2006, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on 
their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such 
taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the 
use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time 
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on, or in respect of any item to 
be financed out of, the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise 
- 2 -
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in 
the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“A.1 Subproject” means a project to be carried out by a Province under 
Part A.1 of the Project, consisting of one or more of the activities set forth in Part A.1 of 
the Project and identified in the respective Bilateral Agreement; 
(b) 
“A.2 Subproject” means a project to be carried out by a Province under  
Part A.2 of the Project, consisting of one or more of the activities set forth in Part A.2 of 
the Project and identified in the respective Bilateral Agreement; 
(c) 
“A.3 Subproject” means a project to be carried out by a Province under  
Part A.3 of the Project, consisting of one or more of the activities set forth in Part A.3 of 
the Project and identified in the respective Bilateral Agreement; 
(d) 
“Bilateral Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and the schedules and complementary documents 
thereof; 
(e) 
 “DGUFI” means Dirección General Unidad de Financiamiento 
Internacional, the General Directorate Unit of International Finance of the MECyT; 
(f) 
“Environmental Framework” means the environmental framework for 
implementation of the Project set forth in the Operational Manual; 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Institutional Pedagogical Activity” means an activity or activities to be 
carried out by a Rural School selected and approved, and eligible for implementation 
- 3 -
under Part A.2 (e) of the Project in accordance with the requirements of the Operational 
Manual; 
(i) 
“IPDP” means the indigenous peoples plan set forth in the Operational 
Manual; 
(j) 
“MECyT” means Ministerio de Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Education, Science and Technology; 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
approved by the Bank on November 16, 2005; 
(l) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the  
Operational Manual; 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
November 10, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 12 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(n) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of 
the Bank on August 9, 2005 and on behalf of the Borrower on October 28, 2005; 
(o)  
“Province” means any of the provinces of the Borrower; 
(p) 
“Provincial Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan included in 
the Bilateral Agreement; 
(q) 
“Rural Education Plan” means a rural education plan, approved by the 
Borrower, and to be carried out by a Province; 
(r) 
“Rural School” means a rural school which meets the requirements of the 
Operational Manual to benefit from a Subproject; 
(s) 
“School Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
paragraph 1 (k) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
- 4 -
(t) 
“School Cluster” means any cluster established, following the 
requirements of the Operational Manual, under Part A.1 (e) of the Project; 
(u) 
 “School Managed Activities” means collectively any Institutional 
Pedagogical Activities, School Cluster activities under Part A.1. (e)  of the Project and 
school maintenance activities under Part A.1 (b) (ii) of the Project included in a 
Subproject and managed directly by the authorities of the Rural School or the School 
Cluster; 
(v) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(w) 
“Subproject” means collectively A.1 Subprojects, A.2 Subprojects and  
A.3 Subprojects. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred and 
fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Banco de la Nación Argentina, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
- 5 -
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2011 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time, subject to any waiver of a portion of such charge 
as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
- 6 -
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MECyT and, in respect of 
Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project,  with the assistance of the Provinces, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, education, 
economic, financial, social and environmental standards and practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of Subprojects under Parts A.1, 
A.2 and A.3 of the Project, prior to the submission of withdrawal applications for any 
such Subproject, enter into an agreement with the relevant Province, under terms and 
conditions substantially similar to those of the model form contained in the Operational 
Manual (the Bilateral Agreements), and containing, inter alia, the terms set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
- 7 -
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Bilateral Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
any Bilateral Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about May 31 each year, commencing May 31, 2007, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by August each year, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, which manual includes, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project including all fiduciary requirements (procurement, financial management and 
disbursements); 
- 8 -
(b) 
criteria for identification of Rural Schools,  approval of Subprojects and 
distribution of Loan proceeds allocated for Subprojects among the different Provinces or 
groups of Provinces based on the percentage of the student population enrolled in Rural  
Schools and the percentage of households with unmet basic needs; 
(c) 
requirements for implementation of Subprojects; 
(d) 
model forms for the Bilateral Agreements and School Agreements; 
(e) 
a list of eligible expenditures for infrastructure maintenance of Rural 
Schools and operation of School Clusters; and 
(f) 
the IPDP and the Environmental Framework. 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall carry out the IPDP in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in MECyT a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
- 9 -
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
- 10 -
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such semester.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any Province shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the respective Bilateral Agreement. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 5.01 of the General 
Conditions, it is understood that, if any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of this 
Section shall have occurred, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for 
expenditures under the concerned Bilateral Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
- 11 -
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that at least two Bilateral Agreements have been entered into 
by the parties thereto. 
Section 6.02. The date January 22, 2007 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 12 -
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Production of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1086AAB, Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable address:   
  
   Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA      121942-AR  
(54 11) 4349-8815 
Y PRODUCCION 
Baires 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Felisa Miceli 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
Authorized Representative  
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1) Part A of the Project: 
 
 
) 
90% 
 
)
(a) Goods, works, consultants’ and  79,270,000 
 
) 
 
other services, Training  
 
 
) 
 
and Operating Costs 
 
 
) 
 
procured by Provinces for 
 
 
) 
 
Subprojects and School  
 
 
) 
 
Managed Activities Costs 
 
 
) 
 
(b) Goods, works, and 
57,902,000 
 
) 
 
consultants’ and 
 
 
) 
 
other services, Training and 
 
 
) 
 
Operating Costs 
 
 
) 
 
procured by the Borrower 
 
 
) 
 
pursuant to Part A.4 of the 
 
 
) 
 
Project 
 
 
) 
 
(2) Goods, consultants’ 
4,473,000 
 
 
90% 
 
services,  Training and Operating  
 
costs for Part B  
 
of the Project 
 
(3) Front-end fee 
375,000 
Amount due under Section 
 
2.04 of this Agreement 
 
(4) Refunding of Project 
1,500,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) 
 
of this Agreement 
- 15 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(5) Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
6,480,000 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
150,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs, which would not 
have been incurred absent the Project of communications, office supply, and local travel 
(other than for training) directly related to the performance of the Project activities by: (i) 
MECyT and the Borrower’s National Audit Agency (AGN); and (ii) the Province’s staff 
including Rural Schools’ personnel in respect of Subprojects;  
(b)  
the term “School Managed Activities Costs” means the cost of materials, 
goods and services for maintenance of Rural Schools under Part A. 1. (b) (ii) of the 
Project, the establishment and operation of School Clusters, and Institutional 
Development Activities, all as listed in the Operational Manual; and 
(c) 
the term “Training” means the reasonable non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by MECyT and the Province’s and Rural Schools’ staff in connection with  the 
carrying out of the training activities under Parts A and B of the Project, including local 
travel costs, per diem of trainers, trainees, facilitators and stakeholders, and training 
materials. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $15,000,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures within twelve months before the 
date of this Agreement; and 
- 16 -
(b) 
any expenditures for a Subproject under Part A.1., A.2., and A.3. of the 
Project, unless: (i) the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
assessment of the financial management and procurement capacity of the respective 
Province to carry out the Subproject has been concluded to the satisfaction of the Bank; 
and (ii) a Bilateral Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been entered into with the 
relevant Province. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
 
(a) 
goods, works and services (including those for Subprojects) in respect of 
which no prior review of contracts is required in accordance with the provisions of 
Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
Training and Operating Costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to improve: 
(a) 
the coverage, efficiency, and quality of the Borrower’s education system; 
and 
(b) 
the governance of the Borrower’s education system through 
strengthening of the normative, planning, information, monitoring and evaluation 
capacity at the national and provincial levels.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Improving Quality and Coverage of Rural Education 
Strengthening the delivery of education services in Rural Schools through: 
1. 
Carrying out of activities aimed to improve the operating conditions of Rural 
Schools (A.1 Subprojects) and including: 
 
(a) 
provision of didactic materials and teaching equipment; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
construction and/or rehabilitation of classrooms: (A) to 
accommodate existing and/or additional enrollment; and (B) to meet minimum school 
infrastructure standards; (ii) maintenance of Rural Schools; and (iii) provision of the 
infrastructure (electricity and water services) and materials required therefor; 
 
(c) 
provision of technical tools necessary to access distance education 
through the education television channels (including satellite connections); 
 
(d) 
provision of technical assistance for the preparation of Institutional 
Pedagogical Activities in Rural Schools of predominantly indigenous students, and 
carrying out training programs for Rural Schools implementing the Borrower’s  
indigenous education programs; and 
- 18 -
(e) 
establishment and operation of clusters of Rural Schools designed as a 
mechanism to deal with a common set of problems such as education planning, training 
and management of didactic materials, teaching equipment, and other resources for such 
schools (School Clusters). 
2. 
Carrying out of activities aimed to expand coverage and improve the student 
promotion flow in Rural Schools (A.2 Subprojects) and including: 
 
(a) 
expansion of coverage of pre-school education through the development 
and application of multi-grade pre-school models including the provision of educational 
materials and training of teachers required therefor; 
 
(b)  
implementation of measures aimed to prevent dropout and repetition in 
the first years of primary education schooling, such as measures to increase the reading 
and mathematics ability of students in the initial grades, adoption of a three-year learning 
cycle as a framework for learning and students’ promotion, and provision of training as 
required therefor; 
 
(c) 
implementation of selected actions aimed to assist overage students to 
catch up academically and reduce the overage distortion in the latter years of primary 
education schooling, and provision of the materials and training required therefor;  
(d) 
design and implementation of learning modules for delivery of the 
compulsory level of secondary education to students of Rural Schools, including the 
provisions of materials and training of teachers required therefor; and 
(e) 
carrying out of Institutional Pedagogical Activities. 
3. 
Carrying out of activities aimed to strengthen the management of education 
delivery in Rural Schools at the provincial level (A.3 Subprojects) and including 
provision of technical assistance and training for the Province’s education ministries’ 
staff in management, financial management, procurement and internal auditing, planning 
and information, pedagogical and administrative areas, and for information systems and 
school supervision. 
4. 
Carrying out of procurement at the national level for activities identified in Parts 
A.1, A.2 and A.3 above. 
- 19 -
Part B: Enhancing Stewardship Capacity of MECyT
1. 
Strengthening the planning, normative, monitoring, evaluation, implementation, 
financial management, procurement and internal auditing capacity of selected 
departments of MECyT through: 
(a)  
a review of the institutional arrangements of selected departments  to 
identify and correct overlapping of activities and establish modern procedures and 
mechanisms to monitor and evaluate education activities and projects;  and 
(b) 
provision of training to upgrade the technical skills of those involved in 
improvement of educational quality, mainly in the use of implementation tools and 
information management systems.  
2. 
(a) 
Carrying out of: (i) surveys of the functioning conditions of Rural 
Schools; and (ii) impact evaluation studies on the Project; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out of student learning assessments in Rural Schools and 
provision of feedback to such schools. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2011. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2011  
 
through September 15, 2019 
5.26% 
 
On March 15, 2020 
5.32% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 21 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding, using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall 
include the additional provisions set forth in Section V of this Schedule. 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
- 23 -
3. 
Direct Contracting.
(a) 
Additional numbers of the same books, purchased from the same 
suppliers and at the same prices as those which were selected under Part B.4 below; and 
(b) 
books purchased from a list of publications and suppliers selected under 
a book fair organized for such purpose following the procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of direct 
contracting following the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
4. 
Community Participation
Books, library and didactic materials required for Part A of the Project may be 
procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection and Section V of this Schedule. For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely 
national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
- 24 -
4. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section V.
Special Provisions
The following provisions shall apply to procurement of goods, works and 
services: 
A. 
General
1. 
Foreign and local contractors, service providers, consultants and suppliers shall 
not be required: (a) to register; or (b) to establish residence in Argentina or in a Province; 
or (c) enter into association with other national or international bidders as a condition for 
submitting bids or proposals. 
2. 
International arbitration shall be included as a condition of conflict resolution 
mechanism in contracts with foreign contractors, service providers, consultants and 
suppliers. 
3. 
Invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid opening, requests for 
expressions of interest, and modifications of award of all goods, works and services, 
including consultants’ shall be published in the web page of the Oficina Nacional de 
Contrataciones, the Borrower’s National Contracting Board (ONC), in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
4. 
Witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for a bid evaluation or contract 
award. 
- 25 -
B. 
Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-Consultant services
1. 
A two-envelope system for procurement will not be used for procurement of 
goods, services (other than consultant services) and works. 
2. 
After the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification and evaluation of bids, and recommendations concerning awards shall not be 
disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with the bidding process 
until the award is published.  Bidders shall not be allowed to review or make copies of 
others bidders’ bids. For contracts for goods, services, other than consulting services, and 
works, “the most convenient” bid shall be the one that has been determined to be 
substantially responsive and has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, provided 
that further the bidder is determined to be qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily. 
3. 
The lowest evaluated bidder shall not be required to reduce its bid as a condition 
of contract award. 
4. 
Price adjustments for civil works contracts should follow the price adjustment 
methodology agreed between the Borrower and the Bank on April 15, 2003. 
5. 
National Competitive Bidding procedures would be modified in order to make 
them identical to International Competitive Bidding procedures, exception made of the 
following features: (a) advertisement may be limited to the national press or official 
gazette, or the ONC website; (b) the Borrower’s currency may be used for the purposes 
of bidding and payment; (c) the bidding period (from the date of publication of the 
invitation to bid or the date that the documents are available, which ever is later to the 
date of bid opening) may be reduced to 30 days; (d) the INCOTERM clause Delivery 
Duty Paid (DDP) may be used for the procurement of goods; and (e) the price adjustment 
mechanism applicable to National Competitive Bidding as stipulated in the price 
adjustment methodology referred to in 4. above. 
C. 
Procurement of Consultant Services
1. 
Consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities. 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $15,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $10,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $25,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 27 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 28 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
- 29 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Terms of Bilateral Agreements 
 
The Bilateral Agreements shall contain the following provisions: 
1. 
The Province shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the A.1 Subproject, the A.2 Subproject and/or the A.3 
Subproject and the Rural Education Plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, education, economic, financial, social and 
environmental standards and practices, as well as in conformity with the provisions of the 
Loan Agreement, the Operational Manual, the IPDP, the Environmental Framework and 
a Province-specific procurement plan to be included in the Bilateral Agreement 
(Provincial Procurement Plan);  
 
(b) 
provide the teaching personnel required for the carrying out of the Rural 
Education Plan and, if applicable, the funds, services and other resources required for the 
Subproject; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
not later than six months after the signature of the Bilateral 
Agreement propose the benchmarks and indicators for monitoring performance in the 
delivery of rural education; and (ii) after approval of such benchmarks and indicators by 
the Borrower, take all necessary steps to meet them; 
 
(d) 
annually review with the Borrower the implementation of the Rural 
Education Plan and the Subproject and the steps taken for meeting the benchmarks and 
applicable indicators referred to in (c) above; 
 
(e) 
(i) 
in the event that after the reviews referred to in (d) above, the 
Province is not in compliance with the annual programming of the Rural Education Plan, 
and the Subproject and/or the benchmarks/indicators, submit in respect of the 
benchmark/indicators a report to the Borrower detailing the corrective measures to be 
taken by the Province; and (ii) after approval by the Borrower of the report and measures, 
carry them out in accordance with their terms; 
 
(f) 
procure the goods, works and services included in the Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and the requirements of the Provincial 
Procurement Plan and any revisions thereof that the DGUFI and the Bank may agree; 
- 30 -
(g) 
maintain financial records of the Subproject (including those required by 
the Borrower for disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan for Subprojects (Category (1) 
(a) of the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement) and have them audited following the 
requirements of the Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual; 
 
(h) 
comply with the applicable technical-educational requirements for 
delivery of education in the Rural Schools; 
(i) 
carry out the activities related to those in Part A.4 as may be required 
from the Province;  
(j) 
carry out the financial management and procurement capacity 
strengthening plan, if applicable; and 
 
(k) 
prior to transferring any funds for the implementation of School 
Managed Activities, enter into agreements with the authorities of the School Clusters or a 
Rural School if a Rural Cluster could not be formed, setting forth the respective 
obligations of the Borrower, the Province and the Rural School or School Cluster. 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
procure goods, works and services pursuant to Part A.4 of the Project as 
needed for the implementation of the Subproject by the Province;  
 
(b) 
make the proceeds of the Loan allocated for the Subproject available to 
the Province; and 
 
(c) 
in the event the Province fails to carry out the measures proposed under 
paragraph 1 (e) above, be authorized to proceed with a partial or total suspension of 
disbursement to the Province for the relevant Subproject.  
- 31 -
wb77786 
M:\ARGENTIN\969-AR Education for a more Productive & Equit. Argentina\969-AR-LA- BOARD VERSION.doc 
11/11/2005 5:27:00 PM 
 
