CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7397 - TUN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Tunis West Sewerage Project) 
 
between 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ASSAINISSEMENT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 18, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUNUMBER 7397 - TUN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 18, 2006, between OFFICE NATIONAL DE 
L’ASSAINISSEMENT (“the Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“the Bank”). The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty three million nine hundred 
thousand Euros (EUR 53,900,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
the Commitment Charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.01 of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth 
anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter; subject in either case to any waiver of a portion of 
such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
- 2 -
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
- 3 -
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that the Basic Legislation has been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the Borrower’s ability to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration is that the event specified in Section 4.01 
of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS 
 
5.01.  The following is specified as the Additional Legal Matter, within the meaning of  
Section 9.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Guarantee Agreement has 
been duly authorized by the Guarantor, and is legally binding upon the Guarantor 
in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the President-Director-General of the 
Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Office National de l’Assainissement 
32, rue Hedi Nouira 
 
1001 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Cable address  
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
ONAS  
 
 
 
 
 
216 71350411 
Tunis 
 
- 4 -
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ASSAINISSEMENT 
 
By /s/ Mohamed Nejib Hachana 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Theodore O. Ahlers 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE I 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the 
quality of sanitation services in Greater Tunis; (ii) promoting the reuse of treated 
wastewater in irrigation on a sustainable basis and in significant quantities; and  
(iii) enhancing its performance through financial and operational management capacity 
building. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Sewage Works in Great Tunis
Carrying out a sewerage program to: facilitate the transfer and treatment of 
sewage for about 750,000 people; extend the sewerage networks in Sidid Hassine and El 
Agba; and provide for a sustainable water reuse system; including: 
 
1. 
the construction of about 60,000 m3 per day capacity sewage treatment plant in 
El Attar; 
 
2. 
the construction of mains and water pumping stations system to transfer raw 
sewage to the treatment plant in El Attar; 
 
3. 
construction of mains network to transfer treated sewage to Oued Meliane with 
valves for connection to irrigation basins;  
 
4. 
the establishment of a sludge disposal facility at the treatment plant in El 
Attar; and 
 
5. 
construction supervision through the provision of technical assistance . 
 
Part B: Institution Building
Enhancing the Borrower’s financial and operational management capacity, through 
the provision of technical assistance and training for:  
 
1. 
the carrying out of the EMP; 
 
2. 
the preparation of strategic economic and institutional studies for sanitation for 
about 100 small towns consisting of less than 10,000 inhabitants; and 
 
3. 
the optimizing of arrears recovery and revenue enhancing programs through the 
establishment of a customers’ management system. 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
Environmental and social safeguard measures
1. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
all works and land acquisition activities are carried out in 
accordance with the Environmental Assessment, the EMP  or  
the LAP, as the case may be, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(ii) 
the Environmental Assessment, the EMP and the LAP shall not 
be amended, revised, or abrogated without the prior approval of 
the Bank;  
 
(b) 
(i) 
prior to the carrying out of any Project activities not identified, 
assessed, nor included in the Environmental Assessment or the 
EMP, such activities shall be subject to an environmental 
assessment, under terms of reference and in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(ii) 
all land acquisition activities under the Project not identified, 
assessed, nor included in the LAP shall be subject to an 
environmental and social assessment under terms of reference 
and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 2007, revise, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, the Environmental Assessment, to include the sludge disposal 
facility under Part A.4 of the Project; and (b) not later than June 30, 2008, secure a 
construction site and financing for a sludge disposal facility in Greater Tunis, in 
accordance with the Environmental Assessment as revised per the preceding sub-
paragraph (a). 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
- 7 -
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
- 8 -
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for procurement of 
goods and works for the Project, provided that the following provisions are complied 
with: 
 
(i) 
The bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award 
criteria and bidder qualification criteria; 
 
(ii) 
Technical, administrative and financial envelopes are publicly and 
simultaneously opened; 
 
(iii) 
Bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in 
the bid documents and quantified in monetary terms and contracts 
are awarded to the qualified bidder with the lowest evaluated 
responsive bid; 
 
(iv) 
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding 
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding 
procurement must be submitted to, and found acceptable, by the 
Bank;  
 
(v) 
Tenders will be advertised with no less than four (4) weeks notice 
for bid submission; 
 
(vi) 
Bidders will be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail 
before the expiration of the deadline for submitting bids;  
 
(vii) 
If foreign firms wish to participate, they shall be allowed to do so 
and no provision for preferential treatment for national companies 
or mandatory association between foreign and  national firms shall 
apply;  
 
(viii) 
The procedures shall include publication of evaluation results and 
the award of contract and provisions for bidders to protest; and 
 
(ix) 
The bid document shall specify that the mention of the bidder’s 
name on the envelope shall constitute a reason for rejecting the bid 
- 9 -
Procurement Method 
(b)  Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)     Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification 
(b)     Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,500,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (d) each contract for individual consultants’ 
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
- 10 -
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euros) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Works  
 
33,300,000 
 
90% 
(2) Goods 
 
12,500,000 
 
100% 
of 
foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost) and 80% of local 
expenditures 
for 
items 
procured locally 
(3) Consultant’s services 
 
2,233,000 
 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
134,750 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0
Amount 
due 
under 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of 
this 
Agreement 
(6) Unallocated 
 
5,732,250 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
53,900,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on: December 31, 2006, a ratio of 
total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 88.3%;  
- 11 -
December 31, 2007, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not 
higher than 82.1%; December 31, 2008, a ratio of total operating expenses to total 
operating revenues not higher than 81.1%; December 31, 2009, a ratio of total operating 
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 80.4%; December 31, 2010, a ratio 
of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 80.6%; and 
December 31, 2011, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not 
higher than 76.4%. 
 
(b) 
Before November 30, 2006, in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such 
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates ) in order to meet such 
requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and excluding provision for 
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 
2.5% per annum of the average current gross value of the 
Borrower's fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to 
the Bank, and excluding interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(ii) 
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
 
(iii) 
The average current gross value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross 
value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the beginning 
and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: by 
December 31, 2006, maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 
0.93; by December 31, 2007, maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not 
less than 0.95; by December 31, 2008, maintain a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities of not less than 0.96; by December 31, 2009, maintain a ratio of current assets 
- 12 -
to current liabilities of not less than 0.95; by December 31, 2010, maintain a ratio of 
current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.00; and by December 31, 2011, 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.00. 
 
(b) 
Before November 30, 2006, and for each of its fiscal years, the Borrower 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such 
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates ) in order to meet such 
requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year. 
 
(ii) 
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve (12) months, 
including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
 
(iii) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(iv) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall reduce its accounts receivable for sewerage services so 
that, commencing on December 31, 2006, such accounts receivable 
shall not exceed: one hundred and eighty (180) days for  
- 13 -
December 31, 2006; one hundred and sixty (160) days for December 
31, 
2007;  
one hundred and forty (140) days for December 31, 2008; one 
hundred and thirty (130) days for December 31, 2009; one hundred 
and twenty (120) days for December 31, 2010; and one hundred and 
twenty (120) days for December 31, 2011, billed by the Borrower 
during months immediately preceding the date on which such 
calculation is made.  
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; and  
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
beginning September 15, 2011, through 
September 15, 2022 
 
4.17% 
On March 15, 2023 
 
4.09% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
- 15 -
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 16 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Basic 
Legislation” 
means 
the 
Guarantor’s 
Law 
No. 
74-73, 
dated  
August 3, 1974, as amended and completed by the Guarantor’s Law No. 93-41, dated  
April 19, 1993, pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is operating as 
an industrial and commercial public institution. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated May 26, 2006, duly 
adopted by the Borrower, included in the Environmental Assessment, which sets out the 
environmental mitigation and protection measures in respect of the carrying out of the 
Project, as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said measures, as such Plan may be amended from time to time with 
the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the environmental assessment, acceptable to 
the Bank, prepared by the Borrower, dated May 26, 2006, evaluating the environmental 
impact of the Project and setting forth, through the EMP, the mitigating, compensating 
and monitoring measures for the Project, said Assessment to be revised by the Borrower 
in accordance with paragraph 2(a), Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
7. 
“Greater Tunis Region” means the territory of the Guarantor that includes the 
Governorates of Tunis, Ariana, Ben Arous and La Manouba.  
 
8. 
“Guarantor” means the Republic of Tunisia. 
 
9. 
“Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement between the Guarantor and the 
Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
10. 
“LAP” means the Land Acquisition Plan dated May 26, 2006, duly adopted by 
the Borrower, for the carrying out of land acquisition activities under the Project, which 
Plan identifies the Project sites requiring land acquisition and sets forth the procedures to 
- 17 -
be followed in the carrying out of said activities, referred to in paragraph 1, Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Plan may be amended from time to time with the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated May 31, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
