CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4808 KZ 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF055731 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Forest Protection and Reforestation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 6, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4808 KZ 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF055731 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 2006 between  REPUBLIC OF 
KAZAKHSTAN 
(the 
Borrower) 
AND 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith (the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement), the Bank, acting as the implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF), has agreed to make a grant, (the GEF Trust Fund Grant), to the Borrower in 
the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in the financing of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed 
under the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply.  Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of 
- 2 -
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans.  
To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of 
any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set 
forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank. 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Access Restriction Process Framework” means the framework prepared 
by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, describing the restricted Project sites, affected 
persons and institutional arrangements, including grievance procedures to mitigate 
adverse affects of the Project activities, and their monitoring and evaluation arrangements 
and referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, approved by the Borrower’s State Environmental Expert on June 6, 2005, 
describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures under the 
Project and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“FHC’ means the Borrower’s Forest and Hunting Committee of the 
Ministry of Agriculture and includes any successor or successors thereto; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Framework for Participatory Forest Management” means the 
framework to be approved by  FHC of the Borrower describing procedures, guidelines 
and policies for the implementation of participatory forest management activities under 
Part A.3 of the Project and referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Framework for Saxaul Rangeland Management” means the framework 
to be approved by FHC of the Borrower describing sites, procedures, guidelines and 
policies, including long-term usage rights and harvesting regulations for the saxaul 
rangeland activities under Part B.2 of the Project and referred to in paragraph 8 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
- 3 -
(g) 
“MoA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and includes any 
successor or successors thereto; 
(h) 
“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and includes any 
successor or successors thereto; 
 
(i) 
“PCU” means the project coordination unit to be established by the 
Borrower within the FHC and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 (j) 
“Project Advisory Committee” means the committee to be established by 
MoA of the Borrower and referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(k)  
“Pest Management Plan” means the plan for the safe handling, use and 
disposal of pesticides used during implementation of the Project, which is an integral part 
of the Environmental Management Plan; 
(l) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 26, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of the 
Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) 
month periods (or longer) of the Project implementation;  
(m) 
“Project 
Implementation 
Plan” 
or 
“PIP” 
means 
the 
project 
implementation plan referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as said 
plan may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Bank; 
(n) 
“RPOs” means the three (3) regional project offices in Semey, Irtysh and 
Kzyl Orda to be established by FHC of the Borrower which will provide PCU with an 
administrative support  and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
and 
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million 
Dollars ($30,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
- 4 -
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2012, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  Such fee shall be 
payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollar for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
- 5 -
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); and (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through FHC, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
public utility, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
FHC, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
- 6 -
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall  make available for the purposes of the carrying out of the 
Project an amount not exceeding twenty eight million eight hundred thousand Dollars 
($28,800,000) to be utilized in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, 
including its Schedule 4 and the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
including its Schedule 3. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and works required for the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through FHC, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank) audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
- 7 -
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
FHC, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 10(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
through FHC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
- 8 -
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely:  
(i)  
subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant 
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; 
or 
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been 
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the 
- 9 -
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
11 Pobedy Street 
 
Astana 010000 
 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
264126 (FILIN)  
(7) (3172) 717785 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By: /s/ Natalya Korzhova 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Loup Brefort 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
Maximum % of 
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Parts A and B of 
the Project 
 
18,000,000 
 
80% 
(2)
Infrastructure construction and 
rehabilitation civil works under: 
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
 
(b) Part B of the Project 
 
3,800,000 
 
200,000 
 
80% 
 
80% 
(3)
Forestry related civil works 
under: 
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
 
(b) Part B of the Project 
 
5,600,000 
 
2,400,000 
_________ 
60% 
 
60% 
TOTAL 
30,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) expenditures in respect of Categories (2)(a) and (3)(a) in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless the Bank has been satisfied, 
following the results of the field testing on radionuclide contamination, that the Project 
area under Part A of the Project is found to be safe based on national norms of the 
Borrower on the radionuclide contamination and does not need to be excluded due to 
contamination level; and (c) expenditures in respect of any Category set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank 
in full the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
- 12 -
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and works 
not subject to the Bank’s Prior Review, as stipulated in the Procurement Plan, under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to develop cost effective 
and sustainable environmental rehabilitation and management of forest lands and 
associated rangelands with a focus on the Irtysh pine forest, the dry Aral Seabed and 
saxaul rangelands. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Irtysh Pine Forest 
1. 
Reforestation of 41,000 ha of forest land by re-establishing seed production areas 
and applied research on cost-effective nursery, planting and direct seeding technologies 
(e.g. greenhouses, containers, seed pelleting).  
2. 
Provision of fire management and other forestry support by: (i) providing 
information, consultation and training on fire management; (ii) strengthening existing 
facilities for fire prevention and detection, improving lookout towers, communications 
equipment and rejuvenation of the firebreak network; and (iii) improving facilities for fire 
suppression including road rehabilitation, provision of fire station equipment and fast-
attack vehicles; and (iv) developing a program of thinning and cleaning of forestry, 
including purchase of vehicles for more effective patrolling to reduce illegal activities, 
and capacity building in integrated pest management. 
3. 
Forest partnership development by analyzing the potential for environmentally 
sustainable forest-based enterprises utilizing thinnings, and pilot testing participatory 
forest management in about sixteen (16) villages.   
Part B: Environmental Amelioration in Kyzylorda
1. 
Planting on the Dry Aral Seabed on 79,000 ha (44,000 with seedlings and if 
feasible, 35,000 directly seeded) using cost-effective nursery and planting technologies 
and developing cost-effective direct seeding techniques.   
2. 
Improving management of saxaul rangelands by about thirty (30) demonstrations 
of a participatory saxaul rangelands program with each demonstration rehabilitating 
approximately 200 ha, and increasing access to water for grazing animals, or equivalent 
level of infrastructure support for grazing, on an additional area of about 7500 ha.   
- 14 -
Part C: Capacity Building of National Institutions and Project Coordination
1. 
Improving policy analysis, public expenditure analysis, information facilities and 
support, including mapping, human resource development, organizational management to 
strengthen policy and budget decisions, public consultation, inventory, planning, 
monitoring, staff knowledge and skills, and organizational effectiveness.   
2.  
Provision of grants for innovative forest development sub-projects addressing 
issues related to forest protection, production and processing.  
3. 
Provision of support to the PCU in the Project coordination and management. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2012. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
beginning August 15, 2011 
  
 
 
through February 15, 2023 
  
1,250,000 
 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule, except for procurement of goods, works and services 
(other than consultants’ services) to do preparatory work for the Project financed by the 
Republican Budget of the Borrower, prior to the effectiveness of this Agreement, may be 
procured in accordance with the Borrower’s Law on Procurement dated May 16, 2002, as 
amended. 
B. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule. 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Community Participation. Goods and works required for livelihood investments 
under Part A.3 of the Project referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement may be 
procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with the provisions of the 
Framework for Participatory Forest Management. 
- 17 -
4. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
5. 
Force Account. Works which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Force 
Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
Section III.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 18 -
Annex 
to 
SCHEDULE 4 
National Competitive Bidding procedures of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
A. 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
B. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods acceptable to IBRD. 
C. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids; 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents; 
(c) 
Domestic preference should not be applied; and 
(d) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall take place. 
D. 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (for example, more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
E. 
Cancellation of the Bidding Process
Non-recognition of a tender and soliciting new bids can be done only with the 
prior concurrence of IBRD.
- 19 -
G. 
Rejection of an Individual Bid
An individual bid shall be rejected only in the following cases: 
(a) 
the bidder is not qualified; 
(b) 
the bidder does not accept the correction of an arithmetical error in his 
bid by the Tender Commission of the procuring entity; and 
(c) 
the bidder is not responsive to the requirements of the bidding 
documents. 
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall maintain the PCU and the RPOs during the 
Project implementation with staff whose qualification and terms of reference shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank and resources adequate to enable it to effectively implement the 
Project. 
2. 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall ensure that the PCU shall: (a) be responsible 
for: (i) Project management, coordination and monitoring, including evaluation and 
reporting to the Project Advisory Committee; (ii) preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Loan; (iii) management of the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; (iv) procurement of goods, works and services; (v) maintenance of 
records and accounts related to the Project and arranging for the audit thereof; (vi) 
preparation of an annual work program; and (vii) overall responsibility for accounting, 
financial reporting and management, and preparing of FMRs for the Project; and (b) 
provide to the Bank by August 15 and by February 15 of each year, throughout the 
execution of the Project, a semiannual Project monitoring and evaluation reports, 
including information on the status of the key monitoring indicators, to assess the 
efficiency of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall implement the Environmental Management 
Plan, including the Pest Management Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and shall 
provide the Bank with a summary status of the implementation (including results from 
environmental monitoring) as part of normal Project reporting or when specifically 
requested by the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall take all necessary measures to implement the 
Project in accordance with PIP and it shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision of the PIP without prior approval of the Bank. 
5. 
The Borrower, through MoA, shall, within three (3) months after the signing of 
this Agreement, establish and thereafter maintain until Project completion, the Project 
Advisory Committee consisting of the representatives of key ministries, Project 
implementing agencies, non-governmental organizations, private sector, international 
organizations and donors involved in forest-related activities which will provide policy 
advice and guidance during the implementation of the Project. 
6. 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall implement the Project in accordance with 
principles and procedures set forth in the Access Restriction Process Framework and it 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Access Restriction 
Process Framework without prior approval of the Bank. 
- 21 -
7. 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall, not later than December 31, 2006, approve 
the Framework for Participatory Forest Management, which shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank, and implement the Project in accordance with principles and procedures set forth 
in the Framework for Participatory Forest Management and it shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision of the Framework for Participatory Forest Management 
without prior approval of the Bank. 
8. 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall, not later than December 31, 2006, approve 
the Framework for Saxaul Rangeland Management which shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank, and implement the Project in accordance with principles and procedures set forth 
in the Framework for Saxaul Rangeland Management and it shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision of the Framework for Saxaul Rangeland Management 
without prior approval of the Bank. 
9. 
The Borrower shall provide a report with all relevant data resulting from the 
testing on radionuclide contamination of the area under Part A of the Project referred to 
in paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and if the report indicates that 
additional testing and data is necessary it shall prepare and provide to the Bank one or 
more similar additional reports in the future.  If any of the following report indicates that 
the radionuclide contamination level exceeds national norms, the Borrower, through 
FHC, shall take appropriate management measures, including the avoidance of 
contaminated areas, disclosing the report to the public and undertaking a public 
awareness campaign on risks associated with contaminated forest areas and products, all 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
10. 
The Borrower, through FHC, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 (b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about October 31, 2009, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $15,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the  Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
- 23 -
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown  by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
- 24 -
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
