CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7356 AZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 16, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7356 AZ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows:  
 “Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
- 2 -
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“EMF” means the Environmental Management Framework, dated 
November 16, 2005, outlining the procedures for the environmental screening, 
management, consultation and disclosure related to the selection of the road sections 
under Part A of the Project; 
 
(b) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, dated December 3, 
2005, or any other Environmental Management Plan to be prepared by the Borrower in 
accordance with the EMF and approved by the Bank, describing environmental 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for selected road sections under Part A 
of the Project; 
(c)  
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d)  
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting from 
January 1 of each year; 
(e)  
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower; 
(f)  
 “New Manat” means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(g)  
“Operational Manual” means the manual, outlining, inter alia, the 
institutional, disbursement, procurement, and environmental and social management 
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with approval of the Bank, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Operational Manual; 
 
(h)  
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit as established by the 
Borrower’s internal order (Order No. 16k) dated May 1, 2001; 
 
(i)  
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
December 5, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
- 3 -
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(j)  
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, to be maintained by the Borrower in local currency and to be used for 
financing the Borrower’s contribution to the Project’s expenditures; 
 
(k)  
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan prepared by the Borrower as 
implementing recommendation of the RPF (as hereinafter defined) for selected road 
sections under Part A of the Project; 
 
(l)  
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated November 18, 
2005, defining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons under Part A of the Project; 
(m)  
“RTSD” means the Road Transport Service Department (LLC) within 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, as established by the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Transport (Order No. 03), dated June 23, 2003; and 
(n)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million United States dollars ($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
- 4 -
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2011 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
- 5 -
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section  
2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the RTSD with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall maintain and replenish, on a quarterly basis, the 
Project Account opened pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement up to the original 
level of New Manat 1,500,000, such amount to be increased to New Manat 3,000,000 by 
the time the Authorized Allocation for the Special Account has been increased to 
$16,000,000. 
(c)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b)  
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
- 6 -
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through the PIU, shall appoint, for the purpose of 
the Project, an independent auditor in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, not later than September 1, 2006. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
- 7 -
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower through 
the PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
- 8 -
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank has been approved by 
the RTSD; and 
(b) 
the Project Account has been opened by the Borrower in a local 
commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, and an initial deposit in an amount of New 
Manat 1,500,000 has been made by the Borrower into such account. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
- 9 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
 
Baku AZ1022 
 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:  
 
 
 
142116 BNKSL 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN   
 
By /s/ Ziya Mammadov 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo   
Authorized Representative 
- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated  
 
(expressed in Dollars)
% of 
 
Expenditures 
 
To be Financed
(1) 
Goods, works, 
 
consultants’ services, 
 
training and incremental 
 
operating costs 
 
199,500,000 
 
        80% 
(2)  Front-end fee 
 
500,000
Amount due 
 under  Section 2.04 
 of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
  
200,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “incremental operating costs” means 
the incremental expenses incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including office supplies, travel and salaries, but excluding 
the salaries of the civil servants. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Category 1 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 1, 2005.  
4.  
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) training and incremental 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce road transport costs and improve access, 
transit and road safety by upgrading and rehabilitating selected sections of the existing 
East-West and North-South corridors. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Road Improvement Program
1.  
Upgrading of some sections of the Alat-Masalli portion of the Alat-Astara-
Iranian Border Highway (M3), including expansion of the existing 2 lane roadway to a 4 
lane roadway under a mostly new alignment, and construction of bypasses around key 
towns. 
 
2.  
Rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing Baku-Shamakhi-Muganli road (M 4) 
(about 124 km). 
 
3.  
Improvement of selected local roads connecting to the Alat-Masalli portion of the  
Alat-Astara-Iranian Border Highway (M3) and the Baku-Shamakhi-Muganli road (M 4). 
 
4.  
Provision of consultant services for the engineering design and supervision of the 
above mentioned roads and the engineering design of future road improvement programs. 
 
5.  
Land acquisition along the Alat-Masalli portion of the Alat-Astara-Iranian 
Border Highway (M3). 
 
Part B: Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration
1.  
Institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Transport and RTSD by supporting 
their on-going activities in road management systems and operations, including provision 
of road maintenance equipment, consultants’ services, training, goods and related 
technical services. 
 
2.  
Supporting the implementation capacity of the PIU by provision of consultants’ 
services, audit services, office computers, software programs, and office furniture, and 
other goods.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2010. 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; and by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2014 through June 15, 2025 
4.17% 
 
On December 15, 2025 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
- 14 -
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.   
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding. Goods which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Limited International Bidding. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions: 
- 16 -
(a)  
There shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder; 
(b)  
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works procurement and 
shall be conducted only for large works projects; 
(c) 
Entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the Government unless they 
are and can be shown to be legally and financially autonomous and they operate under 
commercial law; 
(d) 
No national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
(e) 
Joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
(f) 
No “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of producing 
(copying) the bidding documents; 
(g) 
In the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ 
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring entity, except where 
the bid prices exceed the available budget; 
(h) 
Rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank; 
(i) 
Works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
(j) 
Prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the 
contract scope and conditions during implementation. 
3. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping, with basis of three or more quotations 
and using ECA Regional sample Invitation to Quote Document. 
- 17 -
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall until the completion of the Project, maintain the PIU and 
shall ensure that the PIU is adequately staffed by personnel with qualifications and under 
terms of reference and functions at all times in accordance with procedures necessary and 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Operational Manual, the 
EMF, and the RPF; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the 
Operational Manual, the EMF, and the RPF, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, 
in the opinion of the Bank, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31, 2008, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2008, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
- 19 -
4.  
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  
ensure that the RTSD prepares RAPs according to the RPF;  
 
(b)  
maintain or cause to be maintained, and publicize or cause to be 
publicized, the availability of, grievance procedures to hear and determine fairly and in 
good faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints raised in relation to the 
implementation of the RAPs by those being resettled (as that term is defined in the RAP) 
or by those in host communities who are adversely affected by the implementation of the 
RPF, and take all measures necessary to implement the determinations made under such 
grievance procedures; 
 
(c)  
through the RTSD, employ a resettlement expert, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to conduct an ex post review of the implementation of the RAPs; 
 
(d)  
through the RTSD, furnish promptly to the Bank the findings and 
recommendations for follow up action resulting from each such review; and 
 
(e) 
through the RTSD, implement all such recommendations for follow up 
action as are agreed with the Bank. 
5.  
The Borrower, through the RTSD, shall: 
 
(a)  
ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of carrying out of the 
Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b)  
ensure that the selection of any road section under Part A of the Project is 
done in accordance with the provisions of the EMF; 
 
(c)  
ensure the complete implementation of the EMPs in a manner acceptable 
to the Bank, including all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse 
environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the Project; and 
 
(d)  
maintain the RTSD’s environmental management office and its 
Maintenance Department with competent staff in adequate numbers and with such 
responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank as shall enable the RTSD to 
manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the EMPs. 
6.  
The Borrower shall ensure, through the RTSD, that any roadworks to be carried 
out under Part A (3) of the Project with annual average daily traffic: (a) above 250 
- 20 -
vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 12%; (b) between 150 and 250 
vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 10%; and (c) below 150 vehicles, 
have an economic rate of return of at least 8%, all to be calculated in accordance with a 
methodology acceptable to the Bank. 
7. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of standards recommended by the European 
Committee for Standardization on design and construction of roads and highways (in 
addition to the national standards) in the design and construction of road works under the 
Project. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories of goods, works, 
consultants’ services, training and incremental operating costs set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $16,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $8,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $24,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 22 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 23 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
