CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7410-HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Trade and Transport Integration Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
PORT OF PLOCE AUTHORITY 
 
Dated November 20, 2006  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7410-HR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 20, 2006, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and PORT OF PLOCE 
AUTHORITY (the “Borrower”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions and in  
the Appendix to the Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty-eight million eight hundred 
thousand Euro (EUR 58,800,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge, as may be determined by the Bank 
from time to time.  
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
- 2 -
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the program, 
as described in the Letter of Development Policy, or a significant part of 
it, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
4.03. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement 
is March 1, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Executive Director. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Port of Ploce Authority 
Trg Kralja Tomislava 21 
20340 Ploce 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
+385 (0) 20 67 02 71 
 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
- 4 -
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Ploce, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Anand Seth 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
PORT OF PLOCE AUTHORITY 
 
By /s/ Tamislav Batur 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to develop trade along Corridor Vc by improving 
the capacity, efficiency and quality of services on the Southern end of Corridor Vc with 
particular focus on Port of  Ploce and on coordination aspects of all corridor participants. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
A. 
Port of  Ploce Infrastructure Development
(1) 
construction of the bulk cargo terminal; 
(2) 
construction of a container/multipurpose terminal; and 
(3) 
construction/rehabilitation of the road/rail/energy infrastructure within 
the port area and construction of the port entrance facility. 
 
B. 
Trade and Transport Integration
Development and rollout of a modern electronic port community system which 
will facilitate integration of information flows along the Corridor Vc by defining 
document exchange interfaces based on international standards. 
 
C. 
Project Implementation
(1) 
training of the PIU staff on project management, procurement and 
financial management; 
(2) 
procurement and translation support; 
(3) 
external audits; 
(4) 
capacity building for the Borrower to implement its business plan; 
(5) 
technical consulting services; and 
(6) 
incremental operating costs. 
 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU during execution of the Project, with 
adequate staffing and resources, and which shall be responsible for procurement, 
monitoring and reporting, disbursement and financial management, maintenance of 
Project accounts and preparation of Project reports and Financial Statements. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
implement the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Plan agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower, as such plan may be amended 
from time to time upon the agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
take all necessary measures to ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2008. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
- 7 -
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing 
with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance 
was made, and shall be adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of the 
Borrower and to register separately the operation, resources and expenditures of the 
Borrower related to the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.  
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding (subject to additional provisions set forth in 
 
paragraph (a) of this Section) 
(b)   
Shopping 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
- 8 -
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding. Works estimated to cost less than 
EUR 4,000,000 equivalent per contract, and goods estimated to cost less than EUR 
800,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions set forth in (i) 
through (viii) of this paragraph. The Bank may, upon notice to the Borrower, increase the 
above threshold for goods to be procured on the basis of the National Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
(i) 
Procedures
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts. Invitations to bid 
shall be advertised in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette (Narodne Novine)
and in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper or at 
the Borrower’s website, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(ii) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works 
contracts, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in the 
Guarantor’s Official Gazette and at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications.  Minimum 
experience, technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated 
in the pre-qualification documents, which shall be determined by a 
‘pass/fail’ method, not through the use of a merit point system.  Where 
pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is 
recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-
qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Guarantor’s 
territory shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can 
establish, to the Bank’s satisfaction, that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial laws and are not a dependent 
agency of the Guarantor’s Government.  Said enterprises shall be subject 
to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(iv) 
Bidding Documents
The Borrower shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for 
the procurement of goods, works or services, as defined in paragraph 1.1 
- 9 -
of the Guidelines, which shall contain draft contract and conditions of 
contract acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(v) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(1) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing 
the bidder’s qualification information, technical and 
price bids, which shall be opened simultaneously at the 
public bid opening. 
 
(2) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids.  The name of the bidder, 
the total amount of each bid and any discounts offered 
shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes of the 
public bid opening. 
 
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence 
to the monetarily quantifiable criteria specified in the 
bidding documents and a merit point system shall not be 
used. 
 
(4) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for 
not more than thirty (30) days.  No further extensions 
should be granted without the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
 
(6) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having 
submitted the lowest evaluated substantially responsive 
bid. 
 
(7) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
(v) 
Price Adjustment
Works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
(vii) 
Rejection of All Bids
(1) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited 
without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
- 10 -
(2) 
When the number of bids received is less than two (2), 
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
(viii) 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost 
of the contract; and performance securities - not more than ten percent 
(10%).  No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a 
suitable advance payment security.  The wording of all such securities 
shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
(b) 
Shopping.
Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than 
EUR 80,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 
of the Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Direct Contracting. Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines and such contracts shall be included in the 
Procurement Plan  or its updates agreed with the Bank. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
Consultant Qualifications 
(b)   
Fixed Budget Selection 
(c)   
Least Cost Selection 
(d)   
Individual Consultants 
(e)   
Single Source Selection 
(f)   
Quality-Based Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 11 -
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Euro) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  
Works  
45,947,000 
60% 
 
(2)  
Goods and 
 
Consultants’ services  
 
4,900,000 
100% 
(3)  
Refund of the Project 
 
Preparation Advance 
1,620,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(4) 
Interest and other 
 
charges on the Loan 
 
accrued on or before 
 
December 31, 2011 
6,333,000 
Amounts payable 
pursuant to Section 2.05 
of this Agreement and in 
accordance with Section 
2.07(c) of the General 
Conditions 
 
(5) 
Interest Rate Cap or 
 
Collar Premium 
Amounts payable 
pursuant to Section 2.08 
(c) of this Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
58,800,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
- 12 -
Section V.
Other Undertakings
1. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any 
debt, unless the net revenues, net non-operating income and accumulated earnings of the 
Borrower for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a 
later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the 
greater, shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of 
the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including the 
debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and subsidies provided by the Guarantor, 
adjusted to take account of the Borrower’s fees and dues 
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though they were not in effect during the twelve-month 
period to which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate 
maintenance, 
taxes 
and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
- 13 -
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Not later than June 30, 2007, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank a draft 
negotiated concession agreement for the terminals to be constructed under Part A of the 
Project, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which will include, without 
limitation: 
 
(a) 
concession fees which would allow the Borrower, under conditions of 
efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity utilization, to cover the costs of 
construction and operation of the new terminals under Part A of the Project, including 
depreciation of the new assets to be constructed under the Project, reasonable 
maintenance costs and an interest and other charges on the Loan and Co-financing; and 
 
(b) 
an obligation of the concessionaire to secure, through letters of intent or 
other adequate contractual instruments, minimum bulk traffic commitments for the new 
bulk cargo terminal to be constructed under Part A of the Project  which would allow for 
recovering the costs of construction and operation of the new terminal, in accordance 
with the cost recovery formula acceptable to the Bank.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall not issue tender documents for construction of a bulk 
handling facility under Part A.2 of the Project, unless it receives evidence from the 
concessionaire referred to in paragraph 2 of this Section that the concessionaire has 
secured, through letters of intent or other adequate contractual instruments, minimum 
bulk traffic commitments allowing for recovering the costs of construction and operation 
of the new bulk cargo terminal to be built under Part A of the Project; and such evidence 
has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.  
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 1 and October 1 
 
beginning April 1, 2012  
 
through October 1, 2021 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
- 15 -
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 16 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Co-financier” means European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(EBRD). 
 
3. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of EUR 11,200,000 to be provided by the Co-
financier to assist in financing the Project. 
 
4. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005  
 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 5, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
9. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) 
of the General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the 
letter agreement signed by the Bank and the Guarantor on September 3, 2005. 
 
10. 
“PPA” means Port of Ploce Authority, a non-profit legal entity established 
pursuant to the Maritime Domain and Seaport Act, dated September 25, 2003 
(Narodne Novine, 158/2003), as amended.  
 
11. 
“Luka Ploce” means a joint-stock company registered in the commercial court of 
Dubrovnik on August 22, 2003 (No. Tf 03/66-4). 
 
12. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Development Section of the PPA. 
 
- 17 -
13. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated October 17, 2006 from the 
Guarantor describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
support the achievement of Project’s objectives and declaring the Guarantor’s 
commitment to the execution of said program.  
 
14. 
“EMP” means Environmental Management Plan adopted by the Borrower which 
sets forth agreed mitigation measures to be implemented and monitored under the 
project 
during 
construction 
and 
operation 
phases.
 
