CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7360 HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Agricultural Acquis Cohesion Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 8, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7360 HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 2006, between the REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
Part A.3 of the Project will be carried out by Hrvatska agencija za malo 
gospodarstvo (HAMAG), with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to HAMAG, as set 
forth in this Agreement; 
(C) 
The Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Netherlands, 
a grant in an amount of EUR 4,000,000 to assist in financing of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Government of the Netherlands (the Dutch Grant Agreement); 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
HAMAG; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
- 2 -
(a) 
“Administrative Service Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower, represented by MOF and MAFWM, and HAMAG pursuant 
to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement;  
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means an entity duly established and operating in the 
Republic of Croatia and eligible, in accordance with the SAPARD Multi-Annual 
Financing Agreement to receive a grant for a SAPARD Sub-project; 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures referred to in Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan describing the 
environmental mitigation measures, monitoring and institutional measures for the Project; 
(f) 
“FMR” means a Financial Monitoring Report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“FSC” means the Facility Steering Committee referred to in Part C.1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Guarantee Agreement” means an agreement, the content and terms and 
conditions of which are set forth in the Operational Guidelines and which includes, 
without limitation, definitions of a guarantee holder, covered risks, default and other 
applicable terms, entered or to be entered into between HAMAG and a Participating 
Bank, pursuant to Part C.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Guarantee Facility Account” means the account to be established by 
HAMAG pursuant to Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement for the purposes of 
operating the SAPARD Guarantee Facility (hereinafter defined) under Part A.3 of the 
Project; 
(j) 
“IACS” means Integrated Administration and Control System; 
(k) 
“ISTA” means International Seed Testing Association; 
(l) 
“MAFWM” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and 
Water Management, or any legal successor thereto; 
(m) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any legal 
successor thereto; 
- 3 -
(n) 
“NUTS” means Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics; 
(o) 
“Operational Guidelines” means the guidelines approved by FSC which: 
(i) set forth procedures for screening SAPARD Sub-projects and establishing their 
eligibility for SAPARD financing; (ii) set forth procedures for issuance of guarantees by 
HAMAG under Part A.3 of the Project; and (iii) establish terms and conditions of 
Guarantee Agreements, including, without limitation, a definition of a guarantee holder, 
covered risks, default, guarantee fees and other applicable terms, to be entered into 
between HAMAG and a Participating Bank;  
(p) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, adopted by the MAFWM and 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth procedures for implementation of the Project, and 
which includes the EMP as its integral part, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank;  
(q) 
“Participating Bank” means a commercial bank duly established and 
operating in the Republic of Croatia which is eligible, in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Guidelines, to receive a guarantee from the SAPARD Guarantee 
Facility for loans provided to Beneficiaries for SAPARD Sub-projects; 
(r) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Department for Policy, EU and International Relations of MAFWM; 
(s) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
December 1, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation;  
(t) 
“Project Preparation Facility” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of 
the Bank on March 29, 2005, and on behalf of the Borrower on June 24, 2005; 
(u) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
(v) 
“SAPARD” means Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural 
Development, providing for a European Community financial contribution and 
established by Council Regulation (EC) No. 1268/1999 of June 21, 1999 on Community 
Support for Pre-accession Measures for Agriculture and Rural Development in the 
Applicant Countries of Central and Eastern Europe in the Pre-accession Period, or any 
successive instrument that may be approved by the European Community to support pre-
accession measures for agriculture and rural development; 
- 4 -
(w) 
“SAPARD Financing” means the funds to be provided by the European 
Community to the Borrower under SAPARD pursuant to the SAPARD Multi-Annual 
Financing Agreement; 
(x) 
“SAPARD Guarantee Facility” means the facility to be established by 
the Borrower under Part A.3 of the Project, through HAMAG as an administrative agent, 
for the purpose of providing guarantees to Participating Banks providing pre-financing 
loans to eligible Beneficiaries for SAPARD Sub-projects, to cover risks associated with 
the Beneficiaries’ compliance with disbursement conditions for SAPARD Financing; 
(y) 
“SAPARD Multi-Annual Financing Agreement” means an agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and the Commission of the European Communities 
on behalf of the European Community, setting forth the technical, legal and 
administrative framework under which SAPARD shall be executed in Croatia; 
(z) 
“SAPARD Sub-project” means a project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary, eligible for SAPARD Financing pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 
SAPARD Multi-Annual Financing Agreement, and for which a pre-financing loan has 
been obtained by the Beneficiary from a Participating Bank; and 
(aa) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-five 
million five hundred thousand Euro (EUR 25,500,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a currency conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, services and operating costs required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (b) the funding of the SAPARD Guarantee 
Facility under Part A.3 of the Project; and (c) any premium in respect of an Interest Rate 
Cup or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) 
of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
- 5 -
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Facility  withdrawn and outstanding 
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the 
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy-five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) thereafter, subject to any waiver of a portion of 
the commitment charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
- 6 -
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly after the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself that amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated 
from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out the Project through MAFWM; and (ii)  
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, shall  cause HAMAG to carry out Part A.3 of the Project; all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
MAFWM, shall carry out the Project and shall cause HAMAG to carry out Part A.3 of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall make the proceeds of the Loan, allocated from time to time to Category (5) in the 
table set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to HAMAG, under the 
Administrative Service Agreement, to be entered into between the Borrower, represented 
by MOF and MAFWM, and HAMAG under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, the provisions of  Part C of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
- 7 -
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Administrative Service 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, abrogate or waive the Administrative Service Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
works, goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MAFWM, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MAFWM, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MAFWM, shall maintain and shall 
cause HAMAG to maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MAFWM, have the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed by 
the Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(i) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year or such other 
- 8 -
period agreed to by the Bank: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year or such other period agreed to by the Bank, as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
through  MAFWM: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through 
MAFWM, prepare and furnish to the Bank an FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
- 9 -
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
- 10 -
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Administrative Service Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived by the Borrower or HAMAG, 
without the prior concurrence of the Bank, and such amendment, suspension, abrogation, 
repeal or waiver affects materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or HAMAG 
to perform any of its respective obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Dutch Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by  
April 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction 
of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement; and 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Dutch Grant 
Agreement shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Dutch Grant 
Agreement. 
(ii) 
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01 The following is specified as additional matter, within the meaning 
of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Project Agreement has been duly executed 
by HAMAG and is legally binding upon HAMAG, in accordance with its terms.  
- 11 -
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Katan�i�eva 5 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
862-21215 
 
862-21833 
 
 (385-1)4922-598 
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zagreb, Croatia as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By: /s/ Ivan Suker 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Anand K. Seth  
Authorized Representative 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
Expressed in Euro
% of Expenditures 
to be financed
(1) Works 
 
11,136,250 
 
85%  
 
(2) Goods 
6,600,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory) 
and 85% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally  
 
(3) Consultants’ Services  
and Training  
 
1,450,000 
100%  
(4) Operating Costs  
650,000 
100% 
 
(5) Guarantee Facility 
4,000,000 
100% of the amount of the 
guarantee commitment 
under each Guarantee 
Agreement 
 
(6) Refunding of Project 
Preparation Facility 
1,600,000 
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Front-end fee 
 
(8) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
63,750 
 
_________ 
 
Amount due under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement 
 
Amount due under Section 
2.09(c) of this Agreement 
- 14 -
TOTAL 
25,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “training” means expenditures for training events, including the 
cost of facilities, materials and supplies, translation costs and participants’ per diem, as 
such costs are agreed upon with the Bank; and  
(d) 
the term “operating costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by 
the PIU on account of Project implementation including communications, office supplies, 
utilities, operation and maintenance of office equipment, vehicles maintenance, and 
publication costs for Project reports. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures incurred prior to the date of this 
Agreement;  
(b) 
in respect of payments under Category (5) of the table in Part A.1 of this 
Schedule in connection with any Guarantee Agreement until: (i) the Administrative 
Service Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly executed by the Borrower and 
HAMAG; (ii) the Operational Guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, have been approved by 
FSC; and (iii) the Bank has been furnished with evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that a 
Guarantee Agreement between HAMAG and a Participating Bank, acceptable to the 
Bank, has been duly authorized and executed and the guarantee payment is called and 
payable in accordance with the terms of said Guarantee Agreement.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts not 
exceeding EUR 3,000,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding 
EUR 500,000 equivalent; (iii) services provided by consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding EUR 160,000 equivalent; (iv) services provided by individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding EUR 50,000 equivalent; (v) training; and (vi) operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
- 15 -
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Euro, a special deposit account in a 
bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachments.  
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
- 16 -
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 17 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of EUR 2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or less than the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
- 18 -
- 19 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to develop sustainable systems and capacities 
within MAFWM and other public institutions to ensure timely compliance with EU 
acquis conditions in the rural sector.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Strengthening Capacity for Absorbing EU Financial Assistance in the 
Agriculture Sector
1. 
SAPARD Managing Authority:
Establishment of a SAPARD Managing 
Authority within MAFWM; strengthening SAPARD implementation and monitoring 
capacities; and development and implementation of a communication strategy for 
SAPARD. 
2. 
Payment Agency:
Establishment of the MAFWM’s Payment Agency (PA), 
including an accredited SAPARD Payment Agency; construction and equipping of 
regional PA sub-offices in NUTS regions; and establishment of a comprehensive IACS 
within the PA. 
3. 
SAPARD Guarantee Facility: Establishment of  a SAPARD Guarantee Facility 
for providing guarantees to Beneficiaries for loans from Participating Banks under 
SAPARD.  
Part B: Empowerment of MAFWM Administration and Management 
1. 
Establishment of an organized, cohesive and well-informed MAFWM 
management and administration team, with improved capacity to address the challenges 
of EU accession. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the policy analysis 
capacity of the MAFWM Policy Analysis Unit. 
3. 
Upgrading of the Agricultural Information Center and of the farm register, and 
establishment of a pilot Farm Accounting Data Network (FADN) in the Center. 
4. 
Establishment of a management information system for MAFWM compatible 
with the Borrower’s information technology policy.  
- 21 -
Part C: Ensuring Safe Food and Sanitary and Phytosanitary Conditions
1. 
Development of the Croatia Food Agency (CFA): Development of the CFA and 
establishment of a consolidated, transparent, efficient, and risk assessment based food 
safety program.  
2. 
Strengthening Veterinary and Plant Health Services
(a) 
Development of regionally structured veterinary and phytosanitary 
inspection services supported by investments in staff capacity building, transportation, 
testing equipment, a web-based inspection reporting, certification and data management 
system and civil works and office equipment at up to five (5) regional centers.  
(b) 
Establishment of a veterinary epidemiology unit including the 
completion and integration of MAFWM epidemiology, residue testing, animal 
numbering, and border inspection software and staff training in its use.  
(c) 
Upgrading of the national veterinary and plant health institutes; and 
establishment of the new veterinary and plant health reference laboratories implementing 
ISO 17025 testing methodologies, including investment in civil works, staff capacity, 
information management and some equipment.  
(d) 
 
Establishment of an ISTA certified laboratory for genetically 
modified organism (GMO) testing at the Croatian Institute for Seeds and Seedlings.  
Part D: Project Management.
Provision of support to the PIU, including provision of goods, technical 
assistance, training and study tours for the PIU staff, refurbishment of the PIU office, 
consultant fees, auditing and other operating expenses related to the Project.  
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2010. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning April 15, 2011, through October 15, 2020 
 5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
- 23 -
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated 
May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Service (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts for goods shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
(a) Works estimated to cost less than 
EUR 3,000,000 equivalent per contract; (b) a works contract for relocation of the 
National Veterinary Institute not exceeding EUR 5,000,000 equivalent; and (c) goods 
estimated to cost less than EUR 500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions set forth in (a) through (g) of this paragraph.  The Bank may, upon 
notice to the Borrower, increase the above threshold for goods to be procured on the basis 
of the National Competitive Bidding.  
(a) 
Procedures
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts.  Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Narodne Novine) and in at least one (1) 
- 25 -
widely circulated national daily newspaper or at MAFWM website, allowing a minimum 
of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
(b) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works contracts, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette and at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of 
thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in 
the pre-qualification documents, which shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not 
through the use of a merit point system. Where pre-qualification is not used, the 
qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed 
by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents.  Provisions of 
paragraph 1.8(c) of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to the bidders. 
(c) 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for 
the procurement of goods, works or services, as defined in the paragraph 1.1 of the 
Guidelines, which shall contain draft contract and conditions of contract acceptable to the 
Bank. 
(d) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(i) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the 
bidder’s qualification information, technical and price bids, 
which shall be opened simultaneously at the public bid opening. 
(ii) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  The name of the bidder, the total amount 
of each bid and any discounts offered shall be read aloud and 
recorded in the minutes of the public bid opening. 
(iii) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding 
documents and a merit point system shall not be used. 
(iv) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more 
than thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be granted 
without the prior approval of the Bank. 
- 26 -
(v) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
(vi) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
- 27 -
(e) 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
(f) 
Rejection of All Bids
(i) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
(ii) 
When the number of bids received is less than two (2), re-
bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
(g) 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; and performance securities - not more than ten percent (10%).  No advance 
payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security.  The 
wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
Shopping. Goods and works estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines, 
including as a form of such shopping, the electronic bidding carried out by the 
Borrower’s Central State Office for E-Croatia (Sredisnji drzavni ured za e-Hrvatsku) for 
procurement of computer and standard IT equipment, provided that technical 
specifications for said equipment shall be subject to the prior review by the Bank in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Appendix I to the Guidelines. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
EUR 200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B: 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
- 28 -
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than EUR 160,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Part A: Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall assign to MAFWM the responsibility for Project 
management and coordination.  
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MAFWM, during duration of the Project: (a) 
maintain a Project Steering Committee which shall be responsible for the overall policy 
guidance and coordination of the Project activities; and (b) maintain a PIU within 
MAFWM, adequately staffed, which shall be responsible for day-to-day management, 
planning and budgeting of Project activities, procurement, disbursement and financial 
management, preparation of progress reports, staff management and Project monitoring 
and evaluation. 
3. 
The Borrower, through MAFWM, shall carry out the Project (except for Part A.3 
of the Project) in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, including 
provisions of EMP, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any 
provision of the Operational Manual without prior approval of the Bank. 
Part B: Reporting and Monitoring
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MAFWM: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2007, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, on October 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
- 30 -
2. 
The Borrower shall provide to the Bank, by February 1 of each year throughout 
the execution of the Project, commencing from February 1, 2007, an annual report on the 
progress of Project implementation, of such scope and such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, including a draft annual Project plan for the following year. 
Part C. Implementation of Part A.3 of the Project “SAPARD Guarantee Facility” 
1. 
Not later than May 31, 2006, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain 
an FSC comprised, inter alia, of representatives of MAFWM, MOF, SAPARD 
Management Authority and SAPARD Monitoring Committee, which shall be responsible 
for overseeing the implementation of Part A.3 of the Project on behalf of the Borrower, 
and which shall closely cooperate with HAMAG. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause HAMAG: (a) to implement Part A.3 of the Project in 
accordance with the Operational Guidelines; and (b) not to assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Operational Guidelines or any provisions thereof, without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
3. 
The Borrower shall request the Bank to disburse the proceeds of the Loan, 
allocated from time to time to Category (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Guarantee Facility Account, upon submission by 
HAMAG of: (a) a Guarantee Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, duly executed with a 
Participating Bank; and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the guarantee payment 
under the respective Guarantee Agreement is called and payable in  accordance with its 
terms.  
4. 
The Borrower shall promptly refund to the Bank any withdrawals or payments 
from the Guarantee Facility Account, if: 
 (a) 
the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the Guarantee Facility Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement; or 
 (b) 
any payment made from the Guarantee Facility Account (or from the 
investment income generated therefrom) was made under a contract in respect of which 
the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by the 
Beneficiary, or by representatives of the Borrower, or HAMAG during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Borrower or HAMAG having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal for Project activities of for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement.  
- 31 -
5. 
The Borrower shall immediately terminate disbursements into the Guarantee 
Facility Account of HAMAG in the event that: 
(a) 
Administrative Service Agreement, or any provision thereof, is amended, 
suspended, abrogated, waived or repealed by the Borrower or HAMAG, without the prior 
concurrence of the Bank, and such amendment, suspension, abrogation, waiver or repeal 
materially and adversely affects the ability of the Borrower or HAMAG  to perform any 
of its obligations under Administrative Service Agreement; 
(b)    
any authority having lawful jurisdiction shall have taken any action for 
dissolution or disestablishment of HAMAG, or for the suspension of its operations, and 
such dissolution, disestablishment or suspension shall materially and adversely affect the 
ability of HAMAG to carry out their respective obligations under Administrative Service 
Agreement;  
(c)  
HAMAG fails to fulfill its obligations under Administrative Service 
Agreement; or 
(d)  
the charter of HAMAG is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely 
affect the ability of: (i) the Borrower to effectively implement its obligations under the 
Loan Agreement or Administrative Service Agreement; or (ii) HAMAG to effectively 
carry out its obligations under Administrative Service  Agreement. 
6. 
The Borrower shall cause HAMAG to obtain the Bank’s approval of the first 
Guarantee Agreement between HAMAG and the Participating Bank, prior to entering 
into said Guarantee Agreement. 
 
