CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7378-MOR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Rural Roads Project) 
 
between 
 
CAISSE POUR LE FINANCEMENT ROUTIER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 8, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 7378-MOR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 2006, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CAISSE POUR LE 
FINANCEMENT ROUTIER (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in  
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project, in support of the first phase of the Guarantor’s second national 
program of rural roads covering the period 2005-2010, aiming at increasing the level of 
accessibility of rural population to all-weather roads to 80% by the year 2015 (“the 
Program”); 
 
(B) 
the Bank has received a strategic framework and implementation letter 
(“Lettre de choix stratégiques, cadrage et modalités d’execution”) (“the Framework 
Letter”) dated March 28, 2006, from the Guarantor, through its Ministry of Equipment 
and Transport, describing a program of measures, objectives, actions and implementation 
procedures for the Program; 
 
(C) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan); and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
- 2 -
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Allocation” means the portion of the Loan determined jointly 
between the Borrower and the Bank within the limit of the amount set forth in the Annual 
Work Plan (as this term is hereinafter defined) for Part A of the Project; 
 
(b) 
“Annual Report” means an annual report to be submitted to the Bank in 
accordance with Part B.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, describing, inter alia, the 
progress achieved in carrying out Part A of the Project in the Fiscal Year (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) preceding said report in light of the monitoring indicators agreed 
between the Bank and the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
“Annual Work Plan” means an annual work plan for the implementation 
of Part A of the Project for a given Fiscal Year (as this term is hereinafter defined), to be 
submitted to the Bank in accordance with Part B.4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Basic Legislation” means the Guarantor’s Law (“Dahir”) No. 57-03, 
dated May 4, 2004, pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is operating 
as a legally and financially autonomous public entity; 
 
(e) 
“CNER” means the National Center for Road Studies and Research 
(Centre National d’Etudes et de Recherches Routières) within MET (as this term is 
hereinafter defined);  
 
- 3 -
(f) 
“Dirhams” means the lawful currency of the Kingdom of Morocco; 
 
(g) 
“DPE” means the Provincial Offices of MET (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) (Directions Provinciales de l’Equipement); 
 
(h) 
“DRCR” means the Directorate of Roads and Road Traffic (Direction
des Routes et de la Circulation Routière) within MET (as this term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(i) 
“DRE” means the Regional Offices of MET (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) (Directions Régionales de l’Equipement); 
 
(j) 
“EMP” means the Project Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower and DRCR and submitted to the Bank on  
February 13, 2006, included in the Project Implementation Plan (as this term is 
hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, and including, inter alia, the environmental assessment procedures for 
the implementation of the Program in accordance with appropriate environmental 
standards and guidelines, said procedures governing, inter alia, the preparation of 
environmental assessments for construction activities to be carried out under the Project; 
 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” means each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, starting January 1 and 
ending December 31 of each calendar year; 
 
(m) 
“Framework Agreement” means the agreement dated August 22, 2005 
between, respectively, the Borrower, MET (as this term is hereinafter defined) and the 
Ministry of Finance and Privatization of the Guarantor, relating to the construction of 
rural roads under the Program (“Convention Etat-CFR”), pursuant to which DRCR is 
designated as oversight entity and construction manager for all rural road activities to be 
carried out under the Program, which agreement shall not be amended without the Bank’s 
prior consultation; 
 
(n) 
“FSR” means the road fund (“Fonds Spécial Routier”) established by the 
Guarantor’s 1989 Finance Law No. 21-88 to finance road maintenance and rural roads 
development and construction; 
 
(o) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the land 
acquisition and resettlement policy framework, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the 
Borrower and DRCR and submitted to the Bank on February 13, 2006, included in the 
Project Implementation Plan (as this term is hereinafter defined), as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior agreement, and setting forth, inter alia,
the requirements applying to land acquisition in connection with construction activities to 
be carried out under the Program;  
- 4 -
(p) 
“Manual” means the manual prepared by DRCR for rural road design 
and appraisal under the Program; 
 
(q) 
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review to be carried out pursuant 
to Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“MET” means the Guarantor’s Ministry of Equipment and Transport 
(Ministère de l’Equipement et du Transport) or any successor thereto; 
 
(s) 
“PMU” means the unit within DRCR, responsible for the implementation 
and 
coordination 
of 
the 
Program, 
established 
by 
MET’s 
decision 
dated  
September 8, 2005; 
 
(t) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
March 3, 2006, covering the initial twelve (12) month period (or longer) of the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 
twelve (12) month periods (or longer) of Project implementation;  
 
(u) 
“Project Area” means the area in which Project activities will be carried 
out in the Guarantor’s regions of Tanger-Tetouan, Taza-Al-Hoceima-Taounate,  
Fez-Boulmane, Meknes-Tafilalt, Tadla-Azilal, Doukkala-Abda, Rabat-Sale-Zemmour-
Zaër, Casablanca, Oriental, Marrakech-Tensift-El Haouz, Chaouia-Ourdigha, Gharb-
Chrarda-Beni Hsen, and Souss-Massa-Draâ, and the Guarantor’s province of Guelmin;    
 
(v) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the project implementation plan 
prepared by the Borrower and DRCR, dated March 25, 2006, at all times satisfactory to 
the Bank, setting forth, inter alia: (i) the respective roles and responsibilities for the 
implementation of the Project; (ii) the accounting, financial reporting and auditing 
arrangements; (iii) the Procurement Plan; (iv) the monitoring and evaluation procedures, 
including the performance indicators agreed between the Bank and the Borrower for the 
Program; (v) the environmental assessment procedures; (vi) the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework; (vii) the EMP; and (viii) the procedures manual for the 
administrative and financial management of the Program, as said Plan may be updated 
periodically by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(w) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(x) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
 
- 5 -
(y) 
“Regional Framework Agreement” means a framework agreement 
entered into between MET and each of the Guarantor’s regions within the Project Area, 
with a view to securing the latter’s, including the latter’s respective provinces and 
municipalities (“communes”), contribution to the financing of their respective local rural 
roads under the Program; 
 
(z) 
“Specific Provincial Agreement” means a specific agreement entered 
into between MET and each of the Guarantor’s provinces within the Project Area, 
including the Guarantor’s municipalities (“communes”) concerned by the Program, under 
the relevant Regional Framework Agreement, with a view to securing said 
municipalities’ contribution to the financing and maintenance of their respective local 
rural roads under the Program, as well as contribution of right-of-way land for said roads; 
 
(aa) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
consultants’ services and training referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and 
 
(bb) 
“Eligible Category” means category (1) of the table set forth in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to  
fifty million Euros (�50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of interest and other charges 
in respect of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions; and (b) amounts 
paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by the 
Borrower to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works, consultants’ services and training 
required under an Annual Work Plan for Part A of the Project. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2012, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
- 6 -
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
 
Section 2.05. The commitment charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the unwithdrawn loan balance, 
subject to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate, provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
- 7 -
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. The Director of the Borrower, and any person or persons whom he 
or she shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.   
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, engineering, transport, 
environmental, social, administrative, economic and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out Part A of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Framework 
Letter, the Framework Agreement, the EMP, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework, the Project Implementation Plan and the Manual, the provisions of 
which shall not be amended or waived without the Bank’s prior agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
- 8 -
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the 
Project, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A of the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each Fiscal Year (or such other period agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank), audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Year (or such 
other period agreed between the Borrower and the Bank):  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Year (or such other period 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank), as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
- 9 -
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each Fiscal 
Year (or such other period agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s obligations set out in 
Parts B and C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report for Part A of the Project, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part A of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of Part A of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
such calendar semester. 
- 10 -
ARTICLE V 
 
Management and Operations of the Borrower 
 
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
appropriate technical, engineering, transport, environmental, social, administrative and 
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management, who 
is assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility 
practices; and 
 
(c) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:  
 
(a) 
the Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
 
(c) 
the Program shall have been amended, waived or abrogated in a manner 
that could materially or adversely affect the Project’s implementation or the achievement 
of its objectives; and 
 
(d) 
the Project Implementation Plan shall have been amended, waived or 
abrogated so as to adversely affect the efficiency, economy and transparency of various 
operational, implementation, environmental and social safeguards and procurement 
procedures under the Project. 
 
- 11 -
Section 6.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Termination 
 
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VIII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the President 
of the Board of Directors of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:                Telex:  
 
Fascimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI)  
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C.            64145 (MCI) 
 
- 12 -
For the Borrower: 
 
Caisse pour le Financement Routier 
P.O Box 6465 
Madinat Al Irfane 
10100 Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
Facsimile: 
 
212 37 71 35 26  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Hasan A. Tuluy 
Authorized Representative 
 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
CAISSE POUR LE FINANCEMENT ROUTIER  
 
By  
/s/ Karim Ghellab 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. 
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
(1) 
 
(2) 
 
(3) 
 
Category
Goods, works, 
consultants’ services and 
training under approved 
Annual Work Plan  
 
Front-end Fee 
 
Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
TOTAL 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in Euros)
49,875,000 
 
125,000 
 
0
_________ 
50,000,000
% of Expenditures 
to be Financed
100 % of the Annual 
Allocation under the 
Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2006;  
100% of the Annual 
Allocation under the 
Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2007;  
100% of the Annual 
Allocation under the 
Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2008;  
100% of the Annual 
Allocation under the 
Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2009; and  
100% of the Annual 
Allocation under the 
Annual Work Plan ending 
December 31, 2010 
 
Amount due under  
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
 
Amount due under 
Section 2.09(c) of this 
Agreement 
 
- 14 -
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding five million 
Euros (�5,000,000), may be made in respect of Category 1 set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 2006; (b) payments made for expenditures under an Annual 
Work Plan for rural road upgrading, rehabilitation and construction activities unless the 
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, confirming that no land 
acquisition is required for purposes of said activities; and (c) payments made for 
expenditures under an Annual Work Plan, unless the Bank has determined that evidence 
of the Borrower’s compliance with the monitoring and performance indicators agreed 
between the Bank and the Borrower relating to such Plan is satisfactory to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR, the Annual Report and the Annual Work Plan 
(Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank 
before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit 
to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the twelve (12) month period following the date of such request.  
 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dirhams a special deposit account in 
the Guarantor’s general treasury (“Trésorerie Générale du Royaume”) on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 1, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.3 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
- 15 -
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 1 if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six (6) month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
- 16 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and  
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in  
Part A.3 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the twelve (12) month period 
following the date of such reports. 
 
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase rural populations’ access to all-weather 
roads in support of the first phase (2005-2010) of the Guarantor’s Program.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective, namely: 
 
Part A: Rural Roads financed by the Borrower
Carrying out an upgrading and rehabilitation program of about 4600 km of rural 
roads in the Project Area, including complementary road related infrastructure in relation 
to said roads, through the carrying out of works and the provision of goods, services and 
training. 
 
Part B: Rural Roads financed by DRCR and FSR
Carrying out an upgrading and rehabilitation program of about 3200 km of rural 
roads in the Project Area, including complementary road related infrastructure in relation 
to said roads, through the carrying out of works and the provision of goods, services and 
training. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2011. 
-18- 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; and (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
June 1, 2012 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2012 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2013 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2013 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2014 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2014 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2015 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2015 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2016 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2016 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2017 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2017 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2018 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2018 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2019 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2019  
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2020 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2020 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2021 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2021 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2022 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2022 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2023 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2023 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2024 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2024 
 
 
3.13 
 
June 1, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
3.13 
- 19 -
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
December 1, 2025 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2026 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2026 
 
 
3.13 
June 1, 2027 
 
 
3.13 
December 1, 2027 
 
 
2.97 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
- 20 -
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement  
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) under Part A of 
the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the 
Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services under Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts for works and goods shall be awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement 
Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or 
less per contract and works estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
as such thresholds may be increased by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Said procedures shall ensure, inter 
alia, that: 
 
(a) 
the bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award criteria and 
bidder qualification criteria; 
 
(b) 
technical, administrative and financial envelopes are publicly and 
simultaneously opened; 
- 22 -
(c) 
bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in the bid 
documents and quantified in monetary terms; 
 
(d) 
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder following the criteria 
referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph (a), with the lowest evaluated responsive bid; 
 
(e) 
the requirement for bidders to have a local representative, established in 
the territory of the Guarantor, shall not apply;  
 
(f) 
the evaluation method for procurement of goods should be on a lot basis, 
rather than on an article basis; and 
 
(g) 
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) calendar 
days from the date of the first call for bids to submit bids and the invitation to bid shall so 
specify. 
 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
- 23 -
3. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Project Coordination, Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
At the central level, the Borrower shall be responsible for the administrative and 
financial management of Part A of the Project and shall contribute to the overall Project 
coordination and monitoring of progress and implementation.  
 
2. 
Pursuant to the Framework Agreement: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall collaborate with DRCR to prepare the multi-year 
strategy as well as implementation, investment and financing plans for all rural road 
activities proposed to be financed under the first phase of the Program, taking into 
account the overall progress of the Program and its impact on the national rural road 
accessibility index. 
 
(b) 
Responsibility for the coordination and monitoring of the execution of 
Project activities shall be vested with DRCR in accordance with said Framework 
Agreement and the processes and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation 
Plan.  
 
(c) 
At the regional and provincial levels, DREs and DPEs shall be 
responsible for Project implementation coordination, and monitoring in accordance with 
the processes and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, and shall liaise 
with the Guarantor’s local authorities benefiting from the Program, under the respective 
Regional Framework Agreements and the Specific Provincial Agreements entered into 
with said authorities. 
 
3. 
Pursuant to the Framework Letter: 
 
(a) 
DRCR, through PMU, shall centralize all technical and financial data 
related to the Program and prepare and submit to the Bank consolidated annual 
implementation reports on said Program.  
 
(b) 
CNER shall be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Program.  
 
B. 
Project Reporting Arrangements
Without prejudice to the obligations set forth in Section 4.02 of this Agreement 
and Part C of this Schedule, the Borrower shall: 
 
- 25 -
1. 
Not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year, prepare an annual implementation 
report, satisfactory to the Bank, covering the technical, financial and accounting aspects 
of Part A of the Project for the twelve (12) month period preceding the date of said 
report, said report to be included in the Annual Implementation Report to be prepared by 
DRCR pursuant to Part A.3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Not later than ninety (90) days following the twelve (12) months period 
commencing at the Effectiveness Date and, thereafter, for every subsequent twelve (12) 
month period until completion of the Project, submit to the Bank, for its review and 
approval, with progress reports prepared in accordance with environmental indicators set 
forth in the environmental assessment procedures included in the EMP. 
 
3. 
Not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the 
Project, in consultation with DRCR, submit to the Bank, for its review and assessment, an 
Annual Report, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the format included in the 
Project Implementation Plan: (a) describing progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Annual Work Plan approved for said Fiscal Year and evidencing compliance by the 
Borrower with the monitoring and performance indicators agreed between the Bank and 
the Borrower; and (b) detailing the budgetary allocations for the following Fiscal Year as 
shall be necessary to ensure adequate financing and proper implementation of said year’s 
Annual Work Plan including: (i) confirmation that said Plan (A) is technically and 
financially viable; (B) includes the economic rate of return or the cost effectiveness 
indicator; and (C) complies with the EMP, including the environmental assessment 
procedures, and with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework; (ii) 
results on the use of the environmental assessment procedures included in the EMP and 
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, including, where appropriate, 
a copy of the applicable environmental assessment study and the land acquisition plan; 
and (iii) confirmation that: (A) the rural roads retained for rehabilitation and construction 
have been selected within the Program and in accordance with the participatory process 
described in the Project Implementation Plan; and (B) the rehabilitation and construction 
of the rural roads referred to in the preceding sub-section (A) comply with the Regional 
Framework Agreements and Specific Provincial Agreements relevant to said roads.  
 
4. 
Not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the 
Project, in consultation with DRCR, submit to the Bank an Annual Work Plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the format included in the Project 
Implementation Plan, setting forth, inter alia, work programs, budgets, the Annual 
Allocation, the Procurement Plan and the monitoring and performance indicators agreed 
between the Bank and the Borrower for the following Fiscal Year.  
 
C. 
Mid-Term Review
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement and Part B 
of this Schedule, the Borrower, jointly with DRCR, shall: 
 
- 26 -
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31, 2009, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the 
said 
report 
and 
the 
Bank’s 
views 
on 
the 
matter.
 
