CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4749 -IN 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Hydrology Project Phase II) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 19, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4749 - IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 2006, between INDIA, acting by its President 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)  
the Project will be carried out in part by the States of Andhra Pradesh, 
Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, 
Maharashtra, Orissa, Pondicherry, Punjab and Tamil Nadu (hereinafter called the Project 
States) and in part by Bhakra-Beas Management Board, Central Groundwater Board, 
Central Pollution Control Board, Central Water Commission, Central Water and Power 
Research Station, India Meteorological Department, Ministry of Water Resources and 
National Institute of Hydrology of the Borrower  (the Central Agencies), with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
each of the Project States and the Central Agencies a part of the proceeds of the  Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Project 
States (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the following modification (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:- the text in Section 5.01 which reads “(a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is 
deleted in its entirety. 
-2- 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
 “BBMB” means Bhakra-Beas Management Board of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto; 
(b) 
“Central Agency” or “CA” means any one or all of the following: 
MoWR, BBMB, CPCB, CGWB, CWC, CWPRS, IMD  and NIH;  
(c) 
“CGWB” means the Central Groundwater Board of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto; 
(d) 
 “CPCB” means Central Pollution Control Board of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto; 
(e) 
“CWC” means the Central Water Commission of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto; 
(f) 
“CWPRS” means the Central Water and Power Research Station of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto; 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower and Project States 
beginning on April 1 of any calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
(j) 
 “Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement and Section 3.02 of the Project 
Agreement; 
(k) 
“HIS” means hydrological information system; 
(l) 
“HISCS” means the HIS Coordination Secretariat referred to in 
paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“HISMG” means a HIS Management Group referred to in  
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
-3- 
(n) 
 “HP-I” means the India: Hydrology Project, in support of which a 
development credit (Cr. 2774-IN) was provided by the Association, pursuant to a 
development credit agreement, dated September 22, 1995, as subsequently amended; 
(o) 
“HP-I States” means any or all of the Borrower’s nine states which 
participated in the implementation of HP-I, and received financing thereunder; 
(p) 
“IA” means implementing agency, whether a CA or SLA; 
(q) 
“IMD” means India Meteorological Department of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto; 
(r) 
 “MoWR” means the Ministry of Water Resources of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto; 
(s) 
“NLSC” means the National Level Steering Committee referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(t) 
 “New States” means any one or more of the Project States other than 
HP-I States; 
(u) 
“NIH” means the National Institute of Hydrology of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto; 
(v) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated June 
2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(w) 
.“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Project States of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(x) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan, 
dated June 2004, adopted by the Borrower, giving details of the guidelines and 
procedures as shall have been agreed among the Borrower, the Bank and Project States 
for the implementation, supervision and monitoring of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Implementation Plan; 
(y) 
 “Project States” means the states of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, 
Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, 
Pondicherry, Punjab and Tamil Nadu, or the successors thereto; 
-4- 
(z) 
 “Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(aa) 
“Semester” means any continuous period of six calendar months 
beginning on April 1 or October 1; 
(bb) 
“SLA-SEC” means the secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement; 
(cc) 
 “State-Level Agency” or “SLA” means a hydrology department or other 
agency responsible for implementation of the Project in a Project State or, in the case of a 
Project State having separate surface- and ground-water departments or agencies, any one 
or more of such departments or agencies; and 
(dd) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred and four million nine hundred and eighty thousand Dollars ($104,980,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2012, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish in consultation with the Borrower. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
-5- 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
-6- 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end: 
 
(i) 
shall carry out parts of Parts A and B of the Project through 
MoWR and other Central Agencies with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, technical and engineering practices, and with due 
regard to social and environmental considerations, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Project States to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Project States therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Project States to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause 
the Central Agencies to carry out the relevant parts of Parts A and B of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
-7- 
(c)   
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the 
Project States and Central Agencies in accordance with the Borrower’s standard 
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India and Central Agencies. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the Project States and Central Agencies to 
update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the 
preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), in respect of 
the relevant parts of Parts A and B, and Part C, of the Project shall be carried out 
by the Project States pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Central Agencies to establish and 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the relevant parts of Parts A and B of the Project. 
-8- 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause Central Agencies to: 
(i) 
have the respective financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
respective financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such Fiscal Year (or such other period agreed to by 
the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements 
by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c)  
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are 
included in any audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant 
to paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) For purposes of the relevant parts of Parts A and B of the 
Project, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which:  
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
-9- 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first Semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
Semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five 
(45) days after each subsequent Semester, and shall cover such Semester.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
any of the Project States shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable  
that any of the Project States will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
-10- 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by each of the Project States, and is legally binding upon each of 
the Project States in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, PIN 110001 
India 
 
Cable address:                      Telex: 
 
ECOFAIRS                      953-3166175 
-11- 
New Delhi 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction 
 
and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
-12- 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By  
 
 
 
/s/ Madhusudan Prasad 
Authorized Representative  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Michael F. Carter 
 
Country Director, India 
-13- 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Part A: General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
Category
(Expressed in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil works 
 16,101,000 
90% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
 32,229,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% of  
 
local expenditures  
 
(ex-factory costs) and  
80% of local 
expenditures for other  
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
21,195,000 
90% 
 
(4) 
Training 
 10,161,000 
100% 
 
(5) 
Operating costs  
20,690,100 
80% until March 31, 2008, 
 
75% until March 31, 2009, 
 
60% until March 31, 2010, 
 
and 50% thereafter 
 
(6) 
Front End Fee 
524,900 
Amount due under  
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
 4,079,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 
 104,980,000
-14- 
2. 
 For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)    
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b)    
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)  
the term “operating costs” means incremental costs arising under the 
Project on account of operation and maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles, 
office rental and expenses, hiring of vehicles, incremental staff salaries, and travel and 
other allowances. 
3.   
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,000,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 
2004. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, in the case of consulting firms, and 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, in the case of individual consultants; (c) training; and  
(d) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other relevant 
information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit, or shall 
cause Project States to submit, to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of 
such request. 
Part B: Special Account 
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
-15- 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that it is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
-16- 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
-17- 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $20,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $30,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
-18- 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
-19- 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in  
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
-20- 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to extend and promote the sustained and 
effective use of the hydrological information system (HIS) by all potential users 
concerned with water resources planning and management, both public and private, 
thereby contributing to improved productivity and cost-effectiveness of water-related 
investments in Project states and Central Agencies. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.  
Part A: Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Consolidation of HP-I Activities in HP-I States, including continued or extended 
training in HIS data processing and associated software provided under HP-I, training in 
the use of specialized water quality equipment, upgrading of information technology 
hardware and software, and hydrometric equipment, and making the dedicated 
groundwater software (GEMS) fully functional, as well as its interface with the data 
storage software (WISDOM). 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory and implementation support services and other 
material support to assist HIS Coordinating Secretariat (HISCS) in the formulation of a 
strategy and detailed operational proposals for spreading awareness, dissemination and 
knowledge sharing among IAs and HIS users, provide training for IA personnel in these 
areas, and support the development and maintenance of websites for IAs, creation of 
resource material for different media, and publications.  
3. 
Provision of technical advisory and implementation support services and other 
material support to assist HISCS and SLAs in the implementation of the Project, 
including support in the areas of monitoring and learning, financial management, 
procurement, planning tools and management information systems, organizational 
development and process improvements. 
 Part B: Vertical Extension 
1. 
 Provision of technical advisory and implementation support services and other 
material support to assist in the creation or development of hydrological design aids for 
surface- and ground-water, and water quality in HP-I States, using well-established 
internationally-acceptable methodologies. 
 
-21- 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory and implementation support services and other 
material support to assist in the development of decision support systems, consisting of 
information systems linked to appropriate models, to promote the use of the data 
generated under HIS in HP-I States.  
3. 
Implementation of purpose-driven studies to be financed of a studies fund in  
HP-I States, in accordance with pre-determined screening, review and approval criteria.  
Part C: Horizontal Extension 
1. 
Provision of technical advisory and implementation support services and other 
material support to assist the New States to upgrade their data collection networks, 
including installation, replacement or renovation of river gauging stations and ancillary 
equipment, ground-water and aquifer monitoring systems, meteorological stations and 
water quality laboratories.  
2. 
Provision of technical advisory and implementation support services and other 
material support to assist in the development of data processing and management systems 
to provide IAs in New States with a data-bank system to be used to verify and validate 
data, maintain data integrity, and for data storage.  
3. 
Implementation of purpose-driven studies to be financed of a studies fund in New 
States in accordance with pre-determined screening, review and approval criteria.  
4. 
Provision of technical advisory and implementation support services and other 
material support to provide training for all staff involved in the implementation of the 
Project in New States, including formal and on-the-job training, and using training-of-
trainers methodology.  
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2011. 
 
-22- 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I:
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II:
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, and works, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
and works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
-23- 
4. 
Force Account. Works which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Force 
Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
Section III:
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 5. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
-24- 
SCHEDULE 4 
 Implementation Program 
1.   
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain: 
 
(a) 
a National Level Steering Committee (NLSC), whose mandate, terms of 
reference and composition shall be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, to 
exercise overall administrative, management and financial monitoring of the Project at 
the national level, and provide strategic guidance and policy direction;  
 
(b) 
HIS Management Groups (HISMGs), consisting of a HISMG Data Use 
and Dissemination (HIS-DD), a HISMG Institutional Strengthening and Training 
(HISMG-IT), and HISMG Technology and Technical Aspects (HISMG-TT), whose 
respective mandates, terms of reference and composition shall be mutually acceptable to 
the Borrower and the Bank, to monitor and review the progress of the Project in their 
respective areas of responsibility and report thereon to the NLSC; and 
(c) 
a HIS Coordination Secretariat (HISCS), whose mandate, terms of 
reference and composition shall be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, to 
be the nodal Project management secretariat and, as such, responsible for monitoring and 
coordination of the Project at the national level, including coordination of procurement 
and disbursement activities, consolidation of annual work programs and budgets, 
consolidation of annual progress reports and financial statements, and monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project. 
2.   
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a) 
HISCS shall be headed by a Commissioner who shall be assisted by a 
multi-disciplinary team, including Director-level staff to serve as member-secretary of 
each of the HISMGs, and other suitably qualified and experienced technical, 
administrative and financial staff in adequate numbers; and 
(b) 
the positions of Commissioner and other higher level staff of HISCS 
shall be kept filled by persons having suitable qualifications and experience. 
3. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than December 31, 2006, recruit, in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, consultants having qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank to design and develop appropriate financial management software, 
acceptable to the Bank, for the purposes of the Project; 
 
(b) 
not later than June 30, 2006, select, in conjunction with the Bank and 
Project States, two Project States to be involved on a pilot basis in the development and 
implementation of such financial management software; and 
-25- 
(c) 
ensure thereafter that such financial management software shall have 
been implemented, not later than December 31, 2008, in one of the two selected Project 
States and, not later than December 31, 2009, in the other selected Project State. 
4. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
appoint and thereafter maintain for the duration of the implementation 
period of the Project internal auditors, having suitable qualifications and experience, to 
assess the operation of the financial management system and review internal control 
mechanisms under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that, not later than nine months after the Effective Date, the first 
internal audit report shall be transmitted to the Bank. 
5. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
not later than December 31 in each year, beginning not later than 
December 31, 2006, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a proposed annual 
work program and budget for the next following Fiscal Year, giving details of its 
proposed work program activities, cost estimates and budget proposals for the Project for 
the forthcoming Fiscal Year; and 
 
(b) 
proceed thereafter to implement the annual work program and budget, 
taking into account such comments as may have been made thereon by the Bank. 
6. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment 
or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
7. 
Not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each semester, beginning not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, 
the Borrower shall submit to the Bank consolidated semi-annual reports on the progress 
of the Project, according to a format acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan. 
8.  
(a)  
The Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Bank and Project States, 
undertake, not later than October 31 of each year, commencing not later than  
October 31, 2006, a joint annual review, and, not later than December 31, 2007, and  
December 31, 2009, respectively, two midterm reviews of the Project, during which they 
shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and 
the performance by the Borrower and Project States of their respective obligations under 
this Agreement and the Project Agreement, having regard to the monitoring indicators 
agreed upon among the Borrower, the Bank and Project States. 
-26- 
(b)  
Not later than one month prior to each review, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank, for its review and comments, a report, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in 
particular, of items to be discussed at such review. 
(c)  
Following each review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or assist Project States in taking, any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortfall noted in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement, or assist Project States in implementing, such other measures as may have 
been agreed upon among the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
9. 
The Borrower shall take necessary action to provide, on a regular basis and in a 
timely manner, all the funds needed to cover the operation and maintenance costs arising 
out of or as a result of the Project. 
-27- 
SCHEDULE 5 
Amortization Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
________________ 
Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Dollars) *
March 15, 2010 
3,010,000 
September 15, 2010 
3,040,000 
March 15, 2011 
3,075,000 
September 15, 2011 
3,105,000 
March 15, 2012 
3,135,000 
September 15, 2012 
3,165,000 
March 15, 2013 
3,200,000 
September 15, 2013 
3,230,000 
March 15, 2014 
3,265,000 
September 15, 2014 
3,300,000 
March 15, 2015 
3,330,000 
September 15, 2015 
3,365,000 
March 15, 2016 
3,400,000 
September 15, 2016 
3,435,000 
March 15, 2017 
3,470,000 
September 15, 2017 
3,505,000 
March 15, 2018 
3,540,000 
September 15, 2018 
3,575,000 
March 15, 2019 
3,610,000 
September 15, 2019 
3,650,000 
March 15, 2020 
3,685,000 
September 15, 2020 
3,725,000 
March 15, 2021 
3,760,000 
September 15, 2021 
3,800,000 
March 15, 2022 
3,835,000 
September 15, 2022 
3,875,000 
March 15, 2023 
3,915,000 
September 15, 2023 
3,955,000 
March 15, 2024 
3,995,000 
September 15, 2024 
4,030,000 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
 104,980,000
*
The figures in this column represent the amounts in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
-28- 
