CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4802 MK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Railways Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
MACEDONIAN RAILWAYS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 10, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
22
LOAN NUMBER 4802 MK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 2006 between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PE MACEDONIAN 
RAILWAYS UNLTD - SKOPJE (MACEDONIAN RAILWAYS or MR) (as defined 
hereinafter) (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) The Government of the FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC 
OF MACEDONIA (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement 
and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
2
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower (as defined hereinafter) and the SLB (as defined hereinafter), 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(c)  
“Macedonian Railways” or “MR” means PE Macedonian Railways 
Unltd-Skopje, the entity in charge of all railways operations in the Guarantor’s territory 
and established as a public enterprise by the Guarantor’s Decision No. 21-4064/1 on 
November 22, 1989; 
 
(d) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
14, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
(f) 
“PCU” means the Borrower’s project coordination unit established 
within the Borrower and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Railway Laws” means the Guarantor’s Law on Railways regulating the 
Guarantor’s railway sector adopted by the Guarantor and published in the Guarantor’s 
Official Gazette No. 64 dated August 3, 2005 and the Law on Transformation of the 
Public Enterprise “Macedonian Railways” adopted by the Guarantor and published in the 
Official Gazette No. 29/05; 
 
3
(h) 
“Skopje Labor Bureau” or “SLB” means the Guarantor’s entity 
established under the Guarantor’s law for employment and insurance for unemployed 
published in the Official Gazette No. 37/98, in charge of providing labor related services 
to unemployed, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(j) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee with membership, tasks, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, established pursuant to the 
decision (Conclusion) of the Guarantor No. 23-4850/1 on January 10, 2005, as referred to 
in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen 
million Euro (â15,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Euro a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Euro for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
5
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project  with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, technical and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02 The Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, technical practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, under terms 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and technical 
practices, under terms satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Section 3.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
6
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
7
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
8
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Railway Laws shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in of Section 6.01 
of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in terms 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
the auditors referred to in Article 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been contracted by the Borrower. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Guarantee Agreement has been 
duly authorized and is legally binding upon  in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date of ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The General Director of the Borrower, or such other person or 
persons as the General Director of the Borrower shall designate in writing, is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
9
For the Borrower: 
 
Macedonian Railways  
 
Zeleznichka 50 B 
Skopje 
 
Facsimile 
 
(389-2) 2462-330 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the Skopje as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MACEDONIAN RAILWAYS 
 
By /s/ Milco Smilevski 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Sandra Bloemenkamp 
 
Authorized Representative 
10
 SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Euro)
to be financed 
(1) Goods, Consultant Services and 
Training under Part A of the Project 
5,988,750 
 
100% 
 
(2) Goods, Consultant Services and 
Training under Part B of the Project 
8,973,750 
 
100% 
 
(3) Front-end fee 
          37,500
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of  
 
this Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
15,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, “Training” means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including: (i) fees of consultants, including educational or other institutions; and 
organizations providing training services; and (ii) cost of study tours, workshops, training 
incentives and related travel and per diem allowances of training participants.  
 
 
3.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding â1,500,000, 
may be made in respect for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 2005; and (b) 
any expenditures for Part A.3 and Part B.3 of the Project unless the Bank has received 
satisfactory evidence that the Borrower has restructured itself in accordance with the 
Railways Laws and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than â 75,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of consulting firms under
contracts costing less than â75,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) services of individual 
consultant and training under contract costing less that â35,000, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
11
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the financial viability, productivity and 
effectiveness of the Borrower’s railway operations. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Improving infrastructure capacity and effectiveness
1. 
Restructuring of the MR from the infrastructure perspective
(a)  
Support the restructuring and preparatory steps for the ongoing 
restructuring of the Macedonian Railways.  
 
(b) 
Support the implementation of the Project, including provision of 
technical assistance and equipment for the PCU and of financing for the carrying out of 
auditing services. 
 
2. 
Social mitigation from the infrastructure perspective
Provision of technical and financial assistance as well as incentives for the 
Macedonian Railways’ staff made redundant as a result of its restructuring, including 
human resource and social services, training and counseling of such staff.  
 
3. 
Mechanization and modernization
Provision of equipment necessary to carry out the Macedonian Railways’ 
mechanization of track maintenance and infrastructure modernization. 
 
Part B: Restructuring of operations to improve capacity and effectiveness
1. 
Restructuring of the MR from the operations perspective
(a)  
Support the restructuring and preparatory steps for the ongoing 
restructuring of Macedonian Railways and future privatization of the transport 
operations.  
 
(b) 
Support the implementation of the Project, including provision of 
technical assistance and equipment for the PCU and of financing for the carrying out of 
auditing services. 
 
12
2. 
Social mitigation from the operations perspective
Provision of technical and financial assistance as well as incentives for the 
Macedonian Railways’ staff made redundant as a result of its restructuring, including 
human resource and social services, training and counseling of such staff.  
 
3. 
Increasing operational capacity
Provision of equipment needed to increase the Macedonian Railways’ 
operational capacity. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2009. 
13
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Euro)*
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning April 15, 2011 
  
625,000 
 
Through October 15, 2022 
  
625,000 
 
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of 
the General Conditions. 
14
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than â75,000 equivalent per contract  
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
2. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
15
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than â75,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than â 150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods and services (other than consultants’ services) procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding, or Direct Contracting; and (b) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of â75,000 or 
more.  In addition, with respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of â35,000 or more, the report on the 
qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
16
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain during the execution of the Project the PCU with 
staff and resources as shall be required to perform its duties in respect of overall 
management and implementation of the Project, including reporting on the 
implementation of the Project to the Steering Committee, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
2.  
The Borrower shall take into account the recommendations of the Steering 
Committee which shall provide, among others, oversight and policy guidance for the 
overall implementation of the Project.  
 
3.  
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out Part A.2 and Part B.2 of the Project under terms 
and conditions set forth in an Implementation Agreement between the Borrower and 
SLB, under terms which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank, including, inter alia,
provisions whereby: (i) the responsibilities and tasks of each entity involved in Part A.2 
and Part B.2 of the Project are described for the purposes of Project implementation, 
including the transfer and use of equipment necessary to carry out Part A.2 and Part B.2 
of the Project; (ii) the commitment of each entity to coordinate and cooperate in their 
respective activities for the purposes of the implementation of Part A.2 and Part B.2 the 
Project; and (iii) the entities shall be required to implement Part A.2 and Part B.2 of the 
Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(b)  
exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in such a manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
4.  
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
Operational Manual setting forth the work program for the implementation of the Project, 
an environmental management plan, and the key instruments for the execution and  
coordination of the Project, including procurement and financial management procedures 
and criteria for the provision of human resource services and incentives to staff made 
redundant as a result of the structural reforms of MR. 
 
5.  
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
17
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 1, 2007, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 1, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
6.  
The Borrower shall ensure that all necessary internal processes and decisions to 
facilitate the establishment of the infrastructure and transport companies under the 
Railway Laws are carried out with due diligence and not later than three months upon the 
entering into force of the Railways Laws. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall, by not later than December 31, 2006, ensure the accounting 
separation of its passenger from freight transportation operations. 
 
8.  
The Borrower shall, by not later than June 30, 2006, prepare a track access 
charge system acceptable to the Bank. 
 
9. 
The Borrower shall prepare, by not later than March 31, each year throughout the 
implementation of the Project, a five year rolling national program for railways 
infrastructure for its infrastructure operations and shall afford the Bank an opportunity to 
comment on such a program. 
 
10.  
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the staff rationalization study envisaged under 
Part A.1 and Part B.1 of the Project under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank 
and shall ensure that it is completed by not later than December 31, 2007; and 
 
(b)  
ensure that the selection process of staff to be made redundant as a result 
of the structural reforms of the MR shall be made in compliance with the Guarantor’s 
laws and regulations.  
 
11.  
The Borrower shall ensure that approximately 400 staff made redundant as a 
result of the rationalization and restructuring of MR carried out are retrenched within six 
months of the commissioning of the equipment acquired under Part A.3 of the Project, all 
in accordance with the Guarantor’s laws and regulations. 
18
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account  
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of â1,500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of â750,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of â2,500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
19
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
20
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
