CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4825 RO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Inclusion Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 4, 2006  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4825 RO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 4, 2006, between ROMANIA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty seven million two hundred 
thousand Euro (EUR 47,200,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-
end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
- 2 -
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall: (i) cause RSDF to carry out Part I of the Project: (ii) 
carry out Part II of the Project through MER; (iii) carry out Part III of the Project 
through MLSSF; and (iv) through MLSSF, cause NAR to carry out Part IV of the 
Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
(i) ensure that Parts II, III and IV of the Project are carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) cause RSDF to carry out 
Part I of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and to  provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part I of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Law No. 7 has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
the Law No. 129 has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: any event 
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and RSDF. 
 
- 3 -
(b) 
The Borrower has established the Steering Committee in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
RSDF has adopted the Operational Manual for Part I of the Project 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower, through MER and MLSSF, respectively, has adopted the 
Operational Manual for Part II of the Project and the Operational Manual 
for Parts III and IV of the Project, both satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(e)  
Each of RSDF, MER, MLSSF and NAR has adopted its respective 
Annual Development Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, covering the period 
from the Effective Date to the end of 2007. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Public Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
11239  
 
4021 312 6792 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 4 -
- 5 -
AGREED at Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By /s/ Sebastian Vladescu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Anand Seth 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the living conditions and the social 
inclusion of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable people in Romania.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I: Priority Interventions Program
Support to RSDF to improve living conditions and social inclusion for Roma 
living in about one hundred (100) poor settlements through: (i) the financing of Priority 
Interventions Sub-projects awarded on a competitive basis; (ii) the carrying out of 
promotion, information and education campaigns and monitoring evaluation activities, 
and the provision of training for local authorities, community groups and NGOs; (iii) the 
provision of assistance in capacity building at community level through preparation, 
facilitation, evaluation and supervision of Priority Intervention Sub-projects and 
provision of training in relation thereto, including training to RSDF; and (iv) the 
provision of technical assistance to poor Roma communities to prepare projects to be 
financed through EU funds. 
 
Part II: Inclusive Early Childhood Education Program
Support to MER to mainstream Roma into the regular policies and programs of 
MER through: (i) the construction, extension, rehabilitation and furnishing of ECE 
infrastructure in communities with a high percentage of Roma; (ii) the development of an 
inclusive ECE curriculum, the provision of  training to ECE staff, the development and 
distribution of ECE teaching and learning materials, and the provision of technical 
assistance to entities entitled to submit financing applications for projects to be financed 
through EU structural funds; (iii) the promotion of integrated services and alternative 
community-based solutions for ECE, including the development of coherent ECE 
legislation, and the provision of training and counseling programs for parents; and (iv) 
the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation and information, education and 
communication activities. 
 
Part III:Social Assistance Programs
1. 
Disabilities Program 
 
 
Support to MLSSF and NAPH to improve the quality of care in residential 
services and to increase the access to community-based services for persons with 
disabilities in need through: (i) the financing of Disabilities Sub-projects awarded on a 
competitive basis; (iii) the provision of training to professional staff that will implement 
- 7 -
new standards of care; (iii) the development of the monitoring and evaluation system for 
NAPH; and (iv) the provision of occupational counseling services. 
 
2. 
Youth at Risk Program 
 
Support to MLSSF to enhance the social integration of youth aged eighteen (18) 
and more graduating from the institutionalized child care system, through: (i) the 
financing of Youth at Risk Sub-projects awarded on a competitive basis; (ii) the carrying 
out of monitoring and evaluation activities, and the development of specific 
methodologies;  (iii) the provision of training to the staff of the multi-functional centers 
to be established under the Youth at Risk Sub-projects, and to the MLSSF staff involved 
in supervising the functioning of such multi-functional centers; and (iv) the carrying out 
of public awareness activities. 
 
3. 
Victims of Domestic Violence Program 
 
Support to MLSSF and NAFP to develop specialized integrated social services 
for victims of domestic violence, through: (i) the financing of Domestic Violence Sub-
projects awarded on a competitive basis; (ii) the provision of training to the staff of 
centers for victims of domestic violence and to NAFP staff; (iii) the carrying out of 
monitoring and evaluation activities, the development of specific methodologies and the 
development of a specific management information system regarding victims and 
aggressors to be maintained by NAFP; and (iv) the carrying out of public awareness 
activities. 
.
Part IV:Capacity Building for Roma Social Inclusion
Support to NAR and its eight (8) regional branches to coordinate activities aimed 
at improving inclusive planning, monitoring and evaluation and identification, 
preparation and implementation of programs to be financed through EU and other funds, 
through: (i) the provision of training to NAR staff, Roma NGOs, local authorities and 
Roma community initiative groups; (ii) the preparation and implementation of an 
information, education and communication strategy; and (iii) the strengthening of the 
monitoring and evaluation system. 
 
- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part I of the Project by RSDF, the Borrower shall 
make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to RSDF under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Borrower and RSDF (“Subsidiary Agreement”), under terms and conditions 
approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:   
 
(a) 
the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to 
RSDF in the form of a grant; 
 
(b) 
RSDF shall be required to implement Part I of the Project in accordance 
with the Law No. 129, the Operational Manual for Part I of the Project, the Annual 
Development Plans for Part I of the Project and the provisions of this Loan Agreement; 
and  
 
(c) 
RSDF shall be required as part of its responsibility for implementation of 
Part I of the Project: (i) to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, not later 
than  October 1 in each year, for their review and approval, an Annual Development Plan  
for the following calendar year for Part I of the Project; (ii) to prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Bank, not later than  October 1 in each year, for their review and 
approval, a Project Report on the progress, outputs and outcomes achieved in 
implementing the Annual Development Plans for  the period preceding the date of such 
report for Part I of the Project; (iii) to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports 
for Part I of the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank; (iv) to maintain a financial management system for Part I of the Project and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect its operations and financial 
condition including the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part I of the 
Project; (v) to have its financial statements referred to in (iv) above audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and to ensure that each audit of these financial 
statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year, and the audited financial 
statements for each period shall be furnished to the Borrower and the Bank not later than 
six (6) months after the end of the period; (vi) to prepare applications for withdrawal of 
the proceeds of the Loan for Part I of the Project; and  (vii) to supervise the 
implementation of  Part I of the Project, including supervising the progress of each 
Priority Interventions Sub-project. 
 
- 9 -
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
B.
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
 
1.  
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee during Project 
implementation, with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, which 
shall provide oversight and policy guidance as well as overall coordination for Project 
implementation.  The Steering Committee shall comprise, inter alia, Secretaries of State 
of  MPF, MER and MLSSF, and the Presidents of RSDF, NAPH, NAFP and NAR, and 
shall be chaired by the Minister of Labor, Social Solidarity and Family. 
 
2. 
During Project implementation, the Borrower shall ensure that RSDF, MER, 
MLSSF and NAR, are maintained with an organizational and management structure, 
staffing and resources which shall be adequate to enable RSDF, MER, MLSSF and NAR, 
to effectively implement Part I, Part II, Part III and Part IV of the Project, respectively, 
and which shall be acceptable to the Bank.  The Borrower shall ensure that procurement 
and financial management activities for Part IV of the Project shall be the responsibility 
of MLSSF. 
 
 
3. 
The Operational Manual for Part I of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank and the 
Borrower, shall be cleared by the Steering Committee, and shall be adopted by RSDF. 
The Operational Manual for Part II of the Project and the Operational Manual for Parts 
III and IV of the Project, both satisfactory to the Bank, shall be cleared by the Steering 
Committee, and shall be adopted by the Borrower through MER and MLSSF, 
respectively. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through RSDF, MER, MLSSF and NAR, shall take all necessary 
measures to implement the Project in accordance with the Operational Manuals and the 
Annual Development Plans, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any 
provision of the Operational Manuals and the Annual Development Plans without prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
5.  
The Borrower, through RSDF and MLSSF, shall ensure that the Priority 
Interventions Sub-projects, and the Disabilities Sub-projects, Youth at Risk Sub-projects 
and Domestic Violence Sub-projects, respectively, be implemented in accordance with 
the Operational Manual for Part I of the Project and the Operational Manual for Parts III 
and IV of the Project, respectively, setting forth criteria and procedures, including the 
Guidelines for Environmental Analysis for the Project, for selection of recipients and 
sub-projects, as well as the main terms and conditions of the agreements to be concluded 
with the recipients with respect to the Priority Interventions Sub-projects.  The Borrower, 
through RSDF and MLSSF, respectively, shall ensure that the recipient of any fund under 
the Priority Interventions Sub-projects program, and the Disabilities Sub-projects, Youth 
- 10 -
at Risk Sub-projects and Domestic Violence Sub-projects programs, respectively, shall 
carry out the respective sub-project in accordance with the approved agreement, 
environmental requirements, timetable and budget.  
 
6. 
The Borrower, through RSDF, MER and MLSSF, shall ensure that: (i) all 
measures necessary under the Guidelines for Environmental Analysis for the Project set 
forth in the Operational Manuals are carried out in a timely manner; and (ii) adequate 
information on the implementation of the said measures is suitably included in the Project 
Reports referred to in Part A.1 of Section II of this Schedule 2. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Annual Development Plans and Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through RSDF, MER, MLSSF and NAR, shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than October 1 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, or such later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting October 1, 2007, submit 
to the Bank for its review and approval an Annual Development Plan, to be satisfactory 
to the Bank and the Steering Committee, for each Part of the Project for the following 
calendar year, prepared in accordance with the format included in the Operational 
Manuals, and which shall include agreed activities and corresponding costing to be 
financed with Loan proceeds for the respective year; 
 
(b) 
(i) monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports for each Part of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions, on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank and pursuant to 
the monitoring arrangements set forth in the Operational Manuals; and (ii) to that effect, 
not later than October 1 of each year during the implementation of the Project, or such 
later date as may be agreed by the Bank, starting October 1, 2007, submit to the Bank for 
its review and approval, Project Reports endorsed by the Steering Committee on the 
progress, outputs and outcomes achieved in implementing the Annual Development Plans 
for  the period preceding the date of such report; and  
 
(c) 
 jointly undertake with the Bank, the review of the Project activities, 
outputs and outcomes based on the Project Reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) 
above, and if such review is satisfactory to the Bank, jointly review and agree with the 
Bank and the Steering Committee on the Annual Development Plans for the following 
calendar year. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause RSDF, MLSSF, MER and NAR to provide to the 
Borrower not later than four (4) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the 
report referred to in Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, all such information as 
the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request for the purposes of that Section. 
 
- 11 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MER and MLSSF, shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system for Parts II, III and IV of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower: (i) through MER and MLSSF,  shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days  after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
un-audited financial reports for Parts II, III and IV of the Project covering the quarter, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) shall cause RSDF to prepare and 
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for Part I of the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MER and MLSSF, shall have its Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the 
Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause RSDF to maintain a financial management system for 
Part I of the Project and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect 
the operations and financial condition of RSDF, including the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part I of the Project. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause RSDF to have its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 4 above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of RSDF.  The audited 
financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the Borrower and the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the end of the period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
- 12 -
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in 
 
the Annex to this Schedule 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c) 
Direct Contracting 
(d) 
Community Participation procedures described in the Operational Manual for 
Part I of the Project 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
- 13 -
Procurement Method
(a) 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
(b) 
Least Cost Selection 
(c) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualification 
(d) 
 Single-source Selection 
(e) 
 Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
(1) Goods, Works,  Consultants’ services 
(including audits), Training and grants 
for Part I of the Project as identified in 
the Annual Development Plans for 
such Part I of the Project 
 
11,700,000 
85% 
(2) Goods, Works, Consultants’ services 
(including audits), and Training for 
6,100,000   
85% 
- 14 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
Part II of the Project as identified in 
the Annual Development Plans for 
such Part II of the Project 
 
(3) Goods, Works, Consultants’ services 
(including audits), Training, 
Incremental Operating Costs, 
Disabilities Sub-projects, Youth at 
Risk Sub-projects and Domestic 
Violence Sub-projects  for Part III of 
the Project as identified in the Annual 
Development Plans for such Part III 
of the Project 
 
28,600,000 
85% 
(4) Goods, Works,  Consultants’ services, 
Training and Incremental Operating 
Costs for Part IV the Project as 
identified in the Annual Development 
Plans for such Part IV of the Project 
 
800,000 
85% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
47,200,000
3. 
For the purpose of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means expenses incurred by RSDF, MER, MLSSF 
and NAR in connection with carrying out training activities, study tours and workshops 
under the Project, including  transport and accommodation costs and per diem for 
trainees, trainers and workshop attendees, trainer fees, rental of facilities and equipment, 
training materials and related supplies; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating 
costs incurred by MLSSF and NAR on account of Project implementation, comprising; 
communication (including postage and internet); procurement related advertising costs; 
local transportation; fuel; operating, maintenance and insurance costs for vehicles; rent of 
the office accommodation; refurbishment and rehabilitation of offices including 
equipment;  office supplies, maintenance and insurance of the office equipment; Project 
related travel and per diem allowances including accommodation and local 
transportation; and banking charges. 
 
- 15 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
 for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 1, 2011. 
 
- 16 -
Annex  
to  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Mandatory for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National 
Competitive Bidding 
 
Contracts for goods or works for which the Loan Agreement allows procurement 
under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations with the following 
exceptions: 
 
A. 
Procedures
An open competitive procedure shall be followed in all cases, irrespective of 
contract value.  Foreign firms shall not be excluded and eligibility requirements shall be 
common for national and foreign bidders, with no preference of any kind given to 
national bidders or bidders from any regional market.  Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper or the Official 
Gazette, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of 
bids.  Adequate response time shall be provided for preparation and submission of bids.  
 
B. 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
Prior registration shall not be required to participate in bidding procedures.  
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations to pre-
qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily 
newspaper or the Official Gazette,  allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications.  Minimum experience, 
technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification 
documents, which shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through use of a merit 
point system.  Prequalification shall be based entirely upon the capability and resources 
of prospective bidders to perform the particular contract satisfactorily, taking into account 
their experience and past performance on similar contracts, capabilities with respect to 
personnel, equipment and construction or manufacturing facilities, and financial position, 
and all applicants that meet the specified criteria shall be allowed to bid.  Where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award 
of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, 
technical and financial requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding 
documents.  All qualification criteria so specified in the pre-qualification documents or 
bidding documents, as the case may be, and only such qualification criteria, shall be used 
to determine whether a bidder is qualified. 
 
- 17 -
C. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in Romania shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law and are not an dependent agency of the contracting 
authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
 
D. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods, works or services, which shall contain draft contract and 
conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank.  The bidding documents shall provide clear 
instructions on how bids should be submitted, how prices should be offered, and the place 
and time for submission and opening of bids.  Standards and technical specifications 
quoted in bidding documents shall permit the broadest possible competition, and 
wherever national standards are specified, the bidding documents shall also state that 
equipment, material, or workmanship meeting other standards, which promise at least 
substantial equivalence, will also be accepted.  Bidding instructions shall clearly stipulate 
that discount, if any, must be stated by the bidder either in a cover letter or in the bid 
form.  In case of joint ventures, bidding conditions shall stipulate joint and several 
liability of all the partners of the joint venture. 
 
E. 
Evaluation Criteria
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms.  All evaluation 
criteria so specified, and only such criteria, shall be taken into account in bid evaluation. 
 
F. 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation, Award of Contract
(a) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened at the public 
bid opening.  Should bids be submitted in two (2) or more envelopes, all envelopes shall 
be opened at the public bid opening. 
 
(b) 
Bids shall be opened in public immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  No bid shall be rejected during bid opening.  The name of the bidder, 
the total amount of each bid, and any discounts shall be read aloud and recorded in the 
minutes of the public bid opening.  Any discount not mentioned in the cover letter or bid 
form shall not be taken into account in the evaluation. 
 
(c) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point system or 
scoring on the basis of “technical and economical financial achievements” shall not be 
- 18 -
used.  A bid containing material deviations from, or reservations to, the terms, conditions, 
or specifications of the bidding documents shall be rejected as not substantially 
responsive.  A bidder shall not be permitted to withdraw material deviations or 
reservations once bids have been opened.  Bidders shall not be eliminated from the 
detailed evaluation on the basis of non-material, minor deviations or reservations. 
 
(d) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for a maximum of 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be requested without the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
 
(e) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(f) 
There shall be no negotiations, even with the lowest evaluated bidder, 
without the Bank’s prior concurrence.  A bidder shall not be required, as a condition of 
award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to 
modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(g) 
The Borrower shall publish the following information on contract award 
on a free and open access website when it becomes operational or on another means of 
publication acceptable to the Bank: (i)  name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (ii) bid 
prices as read out at bid opening; (iii) name and evaluated price of each bid that was 
evaluated; (iv) names of bidders whose bids were rejected and the reasons for the 
rejection; and (v) name of the winning bidder, price it offered as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the contract awarded.  This publication will be updated at least 
quarterly.  
 
(h) 
The Borrower shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank and the Government, if it at 
any time determines that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing for, or in executing, a Bank-
financed contract. 
 
G. 
Suppliers and Contractors
Bidding documents and contracts shall include a provision requiring bidders and 
contractors to permit the Bank to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid 
submission and contract performance and to have them audited by auditors appointed by 
the Bank, if so required by the Bank. 
 
H. 
Price Adjustment
Contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) shall contain an 
appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
- 19 -
I. 
Rejection of All Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior written concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of bids received is less than two (2), re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
J. 
Securities
No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance 
payment security.  The wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding 
documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank.  The contract shall provide for repayment 
of any advance payment in equal installments throughout the course of contract 
performance. 
 
K. 
Complaints by Bidders
The Borrower shall establish an effective bid protest mechanism related to the 
procurement process and contract award, acceptable to the Bank that allows for bidder 
protests and the timely handling of such protests.  The procedures to receive and handle 
complaints shall be disclosed in the bidding documents.  
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan 
Payable 
(Expressed in EUR∗)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2011 
 
through September 15, 2022 
 
1,965,000 
On March 15, 2023 
2,005,000 
 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in Euros to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
- 21 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Development Plan” means each of the four (4) documents (i) prepared 
by RSDF, MER, MLSSF and NAR, with respect to Part I, Part II, Part III and 
Part IV of the Project, respectively, which include the list of activities to be 
carried out in each calendar year under the respective Part of the Project, as well 
as the implementation plan, the procurement and monitoring arrangements and 
the budget relating to such activities; and (ii) agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank pursuant to Part  A.1 of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“Disabilities Sub-projects” means the projects, selected and financed on a 
competitive basis and implemented in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual for Parts III and IV of the Project, to improve short and long 
term care for persons with disabilities including inter alia the financing of 
restructuring and rehabilitation of existing institutions, the construction and 
equipment of smaller-scale infrastructure facilities aligned to EU standards, and 
the de-institutionalization process accompanied by the provision of community-
based services. 
 
5. 
“Domestic Violence Sub-projects” means the projects, selected and financed on a 
competitive basis and implemented in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual for Parts III and IV of the Project, to support the victims of 
domestic violence consisting in the financing of the rehabilitation of existing 
infrastructure or the construction of new buildings for multi-functional centers 
that will provide integrated social services to such victims and their dependents. 
 
6. 
“ECE” means Early Childhood Education. 
 
7. 
“EU” means the European Union. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
9. 
“Guidelines for Environmental Analysis for the Project” means the document 
dated March 14, 2006, satisfactory to the Bank, describing the environmental 
procedures to be complied with in respect of any civil works to be carried out 
under the Project.  
- 22 -
10. 
“Law No.7” means the Borrower’s Law No. 7/2005, as may be subsequently 
amended. 
 
11. 
“Law No. 129” means the Borrower’s Law No. 129/1998, republished in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette, Part I, No. 483, dated June 8, 2005, as may be 
subsequently amended. 
 
12. 
“MER” means Ministry of Education and Research of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“MPF” means the Ministry of Public Finance of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
14. 
“MLSSF” means the Ministry of Labor, Social Solidarity and Family of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“NAFP” means the National Agency for Family Protection of the Borrower, 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 217/2003 as amended by the 
Borrower’s Ordinance No. 95/2003, and referred to in Part III.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, or any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“NAPH” means the National Authority for Persons with Handicap of the 
Borrower, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Ordinance No. 14/2003, as 
amended, and referred to in Part III.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“NAR” means the National Agency for Roma of the Borrower, established 
pursuant to the Law No. 7, as a special central public administration body with 
legal personality, or any successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization, established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower. 
 
19. 
“Operational Manual for Part I of the Project” means the manual describing 
procedures for implementation of Part I of the Project and including, inter alia:
(i) procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (ii) sample formats of 
Annual Development Plans and Project Reports; (iii) the eligibility criteria, 
selection procedures, terms and conditions and procurement arrangements for the 
provision of grants under the Priority Interventions Sub-projects program; and 
(iv) the Guidelines for Environmental Analysis for the Project. 
 
- 23 -
20. 
“Operational Manual for Part II of the Project” means the manual describing 
procedures for implementation of Part II of the Project and including, inter alia:
(i) procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (ii) sample formats of 
Annual Development Plans and Project Reports; and (iii) the Guidelines for 
Environmental Analysis for the Project. 
 
21. 
“Operational Manual for Parts III and IV of the Project” means the manual 
describing procedures for implementation of Parts III and IV of the Project and 
including, inter alia: (i) procedures governing administrative, procurement, 
accounting, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; 
(ii) sample formats of Annual Development Plans and Project Reports; (iii) the 
eligibility criteria, selection procedures, terms and conditions and procurement 
arrangements for the Disabilities Sub-projects, Youth at Risk Sub-projects and 
Domestic Violence Sub-projects; and (iv) the Guidelines for Environmental 
Analysis for the Project. 
 
22.  
“Operational Manuals” means collectively the Operational Manual for Part I of 
the Project, the Operational Manual for Part II of the Project and the Operational 
Manual for Parts III and IV of the Project. 
 
23. 
“Priority Interventions Sub-projects” means the integrated projects financed on a 
grant basis, selected on a competitive basis, focused on improvement of small 
community infrastructure and provision of community-based social services, and 
implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual for 
Part I of the Project, to improve living conditions and social inclusion of Roma 
living in poor settlements including inter alia the financing of technical 
assistance for sub-project preparation and implementation and related training, 
and environmental activities. 
 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 4, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
26. 
“RSDF” means the Romanian Social Development Fund, established under the 
Law No. 129, as a public-interest, non-profit entity with legal personality and 
enjoying administrative autonomy. 
 
27. 
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be established by the Borrower, 
with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to 
in Part B.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
- 24 -
28. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Part A.1 of Section I 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part 
of the proceeds of the Loan available to RSDF. 
 
29. 
“Youth at Risk Sub-project” means the projects, selected and financed on a 
competitive basis and implemented in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual for Parts III and IV of the Project, to facilitate the social and 
professional integration of the youth aged eighteen (18) year old and more who 
ceased to be eligible for the child protection system consisting in the financing of 
multi-functional centers that will provide integrated social services to such youth 
aged 
eighteen 
(18) 
year 
old 
and 
more.
 
