CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4822-TU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 17, 2006  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 17, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty seven million three hundred 
thousand Euro (�27,300,000) (“Loan”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-
end Fee not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MARA and MOH in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the MARA and MOH have appointed their respective Project coordinators. 
 
4.02 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is Undersecretariat of Treasury. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Basbakanlik 
Hazine Mustesarligi 
Inonu Bulvari 
Emek-Ankara 
Republic of Turkey 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(312) 212-8550 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
3
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Ankara, Turkey, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By /s/ Ibrahim Canakci 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink 
 
Director 
Turkey Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to minimize the threat posed to humans by highly 
pandemic avian influenza infection and other zoonoses in domestic poultry and prepare for, 
control, and respond to an influenza pandemic and other infectious disease emergencies in 
humans. 
 
The Project is part of the Bank’s Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and 
Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response and consists of the following parts: 
 
I. 
Animal Health
1. 
Support for: (a) the development of a national policy framework and a national 
strategy, including the improvement of the regulatory framework to address key policy issues 
and ensure that disease control, prevention and eradication measures are implemented in a 
uniform and effective way; and (b) epidemiological studies and surveillance programs to 
inform the improvement of disease control measures. 
 
2. 
Strengthening animal disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity of the MARA 
General Directorate for Protection and Control and its affiliated reference and regional 
diagnostic laboratories in detection, reporting and follow-up of reported avian influenza cases 
and provision of training on screening, sampling and test procedures to be applied in case of an 
outbreak, as well as on analyzing epidemiological data and performing risk assessments. 
 
3. 
Provision of support for activities related to the implementation of the MARA 
Contingency Plan for Avian Influenza which details the containment plan for avian influenza 
outbreaks, including: (a) culling of infected and at-risk poultry and establishment and operation 
of a Compensation Fund for the provision of cash compensation to poultry owners for poultry 
culled by Governmental order; (b) disposal of carcasses and potentially infective materials in a 
bio-secure and environmentally acceptable manner; (c) training of people in contact with live 
virus; and (d) piloting restructuring modalities for the poultry sector through financing of 
Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects. 
 
II. 
Human Health
1. 
Enhancing public health program planning and coordination through strengthening the 
institutional capacity of the MOH to command and control in a coordinated fashion with the 
MARA the implementation of the National Pandemic Influenza Action Plan and support the 
National Committee for the Control of Zoonotic Diseases to provide coordination among 
relevant ministries and agencies. 
 
5
2. 
Strengthening of national public health surveillance systems through: (a) improvement 
of health information and telecommunication systems; (b) simulation exercises of influenza-
like illness case notification and ascertainment; (c) improvements of laboratory networks; and 
(d) training. 
 
3. 
Strengthening health system response capacity through supporting the implementation 
of the National Pandemic Influenza Action Plan, including simulation exercises, quarantine, 
bans on mass gatherings, and travel restrictions, together with a well-designed communication 
strategy, additional preventive actions such as personal hygiene promotion and distribution and 
use of masks, and promotion of community participation. 
 
III. 
Public Awareness and Coordination Support
1. 
Support for information and communication activities to increase the attention and 
commitment of government, private sector, and civil society organizations, and to raise 
awareness, knowledge and understanding among the general population about the risk and 
potential impact of the pandemic. 
 
2. 
Improve the effective coordination and collaboration among stakeholders and 
strengthen the Project implementation and monitoring capacity of the MARA and the National 
Zoonotic Disease Committee and support Project monitoring and impact evaluation 
assessments. 
 
3. 
Strengthening the Project implementation and monitoring capacity of the MOH. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The MOH PIU and the MARA CEU shall have overall responsibility for day to 
day Project implementation and management.  To that end, the Borrower, through the 
MOH and MARA, shall maintain the MOH PIU and the MARA CEU throughout the 
implementation of the Project under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and with 
sufficient and suitable human, financial and technical resources. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the MARA and MOH, maintain the National 
Zoonotic Disease Committee throughout the implementation of the Project, which will 
include representatives from the MARA and MOH to provide inter-agency coordination, 
oversight and policy guidance for overall implementation of the Project.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the MARA and MOH, adopt the POM not later than 
June 30, 2006. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, through the MARA and MOH, ensure that the Project shall 
be implemented in accordance with the POM.  The Borrower shall maintain the POM in 
form and content acceptable to the Bank, shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
POM and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the POM without obtaining the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, through the MARA and MOH, take all measures necessary 
to carry out the Environmental Management Plan in a timely manner, ensuring that 
adequate information on the implementation of the said measures is suitably included in 
the progress reports referred to in following paragraph A.1 of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the MARA and MOH, monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
7
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one month 
after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the semester, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General.
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
8
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
Limited International Bidding 
 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding, 
subject to the additional provisions 
set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 2 
 
(c)  
Shopping 
 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
 
(e)  
Established Private or Commercial 
Practices which have been found 
acceptable to the Bank 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
 
(b)  Selection based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications 
 
(c)  Single Source selection 
 
(d)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 
5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
9
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
10 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1)  Goods 
 
(a) under Part I of the 
Project, except for     
Categories (4) and (5) 
 
(b) under Part II of the   
 
Project
(c) under Part III.1 and 2 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) Works 
 
(a) under Part I of the
Project, except for  
 
Categories (4) and (5) 
 
(b) under Part II.1 and 2 of  
 
the Project 
 
(3)  Consultants’ services 
 
(a) under Part I of the                      
Project, except for                              
Categories (4) and (5) 
 
(b) under Parts II and III.3        
 
of the Project 
 
(c) under Part III.1 and 2 
 
of the Project 
 
7,970,000 
 
6,290,000 
 
370,000 
 
760,000 
 
2,700,000 
 
530,000 
 
1,820,000 
 
1,130,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
(4) Compensation Fund under  
 
Part I. 3 (a) of  the Project
(5)  Poultry Restructuring 
 
Sub-projects 
 
3,970,000 
 
990,000        
 
100% 
 
50% of amounts 
disbursed 
11 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(6) Incremental operating  
 
costs  
 
(a) under Part III .2 of  
 
the Project     
 
(b) under Part III.3 of  
 
the Project 
 
(7) Unallocated 
 
120,000           
 
100,000 
 
550,000 
 
100% 
TOTAL  
 
27,300,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee;  
 
(b) 
for expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a),  (3) (a), (4) and (5) 
unless the Environmental Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted by 
the Borrower; and  
 
(c) 
under Categories (4) and (5), unless the Compensation Fund payments 
are made and Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects are selected and implemented in 
accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the POM.  
 
2. 
For the purposes of the table in Part A of this Section, the term “incremental 
operating costs” means expenditures incurred to finance the reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenses incurred by the MARA CEU and MOH PIU on account of Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including travel costs of the MARA CEU 
and MOH PIU staff and consultants and cost of communications, supplies, stationery, 
office equipment, rent and utilities and equipment maintenance. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2010. 
 
12 
 
ANNEX TO 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts 
Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
The Borrower shall use the Bank’s Europe and Central Asia Region National 
Competitive Bidding documents template for works and goods and apply the following 
provisions in the carrying out of National Competitive Bidding procedures under the 
Project: 
 
A. 
Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders.  No restriction shall be 
applied to foreign bidders who wish to submit a bid. 
 
B. 
Procedures
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Official Gazette and in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper or in an electronic portal of free access 
allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
 
C. 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
In the procurement of goods and works, where pre-qualification is not used, the 
qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed 
by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and which shall be 
shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through use of a merit point system. 
 
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Turkey shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government. Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
 
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint 
venture partners will be jointly and severally liable under the Contract. 
13 
 
F. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the Bank’s sample National Competitive Bidding 
documents for Europe and Central Asia Region for works and goods and shall draft 
contract and conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank. 
 
G. 
Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point 
system shall not be used. 
 
(b) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 30 
days. No further extensions should be requested without the prior 
approval of the Bank 
 
(c) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(d)   
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding.
H.   
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e. more than eighteen (18) months) shall 
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
I. 
Rejection of All Bids
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
written concurrence. 
 
J. 
Contracts
All contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by authorized signatories of 
the Purchaser and the Supplier and shall contain identical terms and conditions of 
contract to those included in the tender documents.  
 
K.  
Securities
Bid Securities should not exceed 3% (three percent) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; Performance Securities not more than 10% (ten percent). No advance payments 
shall be made to the Suppliers without a suitable Advance Payment security. The wording 
of all such securities shall be included in the bidding documents and shall be acceptable 
to the Bank. 
14 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the 
Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Euro∗)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2011 
 
through March 15, 2021 
1,365,000 
 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
15 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Compensation Fund” means the fund to be established by the Borrower out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to be utilized to pay cash compensation to poultry 
owners within the protection and surveillance zone referred to in Part I.3 of 
Schedule I to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan describing procedures for the 
safe management and disposal of animal carcasses and to be adopted pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
6. 
“MARA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs. 
 
7. 
“MARA CEU” means the central execution unit within the MARA.  
 
8. 
“MARA Contingency Plan for Avian Influenza” means the plan for addressing 
the outbreak of avian influenza dated November 1, 2005. 
 
9. 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health. 
 
10. 
“MOH PIU” means the project implementation unit established within the MOH. 
 
11. 
“National Pandemic Influenza Action Plan” means the plan for improved 
surveillance, case detection and reporting of human influenza occurrence in 
Turkey. 
 
12. 
“National Zoonotic Disease Committee” means the committee established on 
November 11, 2005. 
 
13. 
“POM” means the project operational manual adopted by the MARA and MOH 
setting forth the procedures and rules related to Project implementation. 
 
16 
 
14. 
“Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects” means the investment projects, selected and 
implemented in accordance with the provisions of the POM, aimed at mitigating 
the negative impact on poultry producers through provision of alternative income 
generating or marketing opportunities. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 20, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
