CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4812-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Fuzhou Nantai Island Peri-Urban Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 21, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4812-CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 2006, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Fuzhou Municipality (hereinafter 
“Fuzhou”) of the Fujian Province (hereinafter “Fujian”) with the Borrower’s and Fujian’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower, through Fujian, will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to 
Fuzhou as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Fuzhou 
(the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows:  
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
- 2 -
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans.  To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of  
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and “Displaced Persons” means  
collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
(c)  
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated March 31, 
2005 and duly adopted by Fuzhou, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, and which said Plan sets out the environmental protection measures 
in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
the implementation of said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
(d) 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual adopted by Fuzhou 
dated November 16, 2005, as shall be amended with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
- 3 -
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement. 
(f)  
“FEB” means the Fuzhou Environment Bureau responsible for 
environmental management during Project implementation, and any successor thereto. 
(g) 
“FMFB” means the Fuzhou Municipal Finance Bureau, and any 
successor thereto.  
 
(h) 
“FPTGC” means the Fuzhou Public Transport General Company Ltd. 
Group, a state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter of Fuzhou Public Transport General Company Ltd. (September 8, 2003), and to 
Business License No. 3501001001124 dated July 22, 2004, issued by Fuzhou Business 
Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(i) 
“FUCDC” means the Fuzhou Urban Construction Development 
Company, a state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to 
its Charter of Fuzhou Urban Construction Development Company (September, 2000), 
and to Business License No. 3501001001902 dated May 14, 2004, issued by Fuzhou 
Business Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(j) 
 “Fujian” means the Borrower’s Fujian Province, and any successor 
thereto. 
(k) 
“Fuzhou” means the Municipality of Fuzhou of the Fujian Province, and 
any successor thereto. 
(l) 
“FWPMO” means the Fuzhou World Bank Project Management Office, 
established under the Fuzhou Development and Planning Commission on March 31, 
2004, to coordinate the Project preparation and supervise and monitor its implementation 
and referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and any 
successor thereto. 
(m) 
“The Municipal Project Leading Group” means the Group established on 
November 16, 2005; by Fuzhou for purposes of overseeing the implementation of the 
Project and referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and 
any successor thereto; 
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated May 
23, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
- 4 -
provisions of Section  3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(o) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Fuzhou of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(p)  
“Project Companies” means, collectively, FPTGC and FUCDC; and a 
“Project Company” means, individually, any of said Project Companies; 
(q) 
“Project Companies Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means collectively, the 
agreements to be entered into between Fuzhou and each of the Project Companies 
pursuant to provisions of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said 
agreements; and a “Project Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, individually, 
any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; 
(r) 
“RAPs” means, the Resettlement Action Plan dated March 18, 2005, 
with respect to Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, duly adopted by Fuzhou, which plan sets 
out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation, 
and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of such Parts of the 
Project, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; 
and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans;  
(s)  
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” mean the Resettlement 
Policy Framework dated January 28, 2005 adopted by Fuzhou regarding the construction 
of the Kuiqi Bridge and the Jinshan Depot Phase II, under Parts A.3 and B.1 (a) of the 
Project, that sets forth the resettlement principles, organizational arrangements, and 
design criteria in accordance with which a resettlement action plan is prepared and 
submitted to the Bank for approval; and 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to Fuzhou, FPTGC, and FUCDC. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
- 5 -
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000). 
Section 2.02.(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2011 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
- 6 -
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six (6) month deposits in single 
currency for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six (6) month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower  of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 7 -
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall, through Fujian Provincial Government, cause 
Fuzhou to perform in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Project Agreement, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services, and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Fuzhou to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 (b) 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to Fuzhou, through 
the Fujian Provincial Government, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and the following principal terms:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv)  
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.  
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
- 8 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the Fujian Provincial Government, cause 
Fuzhou to update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the 
date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Fuzhou pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the Fujian Provincial Government, 
cause Fuzhou to maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the Fujian Provincial Government, cause 
Fuzhou to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts, and financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
- 9 -
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
Fuzhou to: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section.  
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Fuzhou shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Fuzhou will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Any of the parties to any of the Project Companies Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is  specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
- 10 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Project Companies Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
shall have been executed by Fuzhou and each of the Project Companies in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, and pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2, and 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank that: 
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Fuzhou, 
and is legally binding upon Fuzhou in accordance with its terms. 
(b) 
Each of the Project Companies Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to 
in Section 6.01 has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto and is 
legally binding on said parties in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12 .04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
- 11 -
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN 
 
 
 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By: /s/ Mr. Yang Shaolin 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Mr. David Dollar 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:   
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1) 
Civil Works                                  
 
 
 
(a)    under Part A.1 of                        5,360,000                       59.95% 
 
the Project 
(b)    under other Parts of                  85,170,000                       60.14% 
 
the Project                                 
 
 
 
(2) 
Goods 
4,890,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures, 
 
100 % of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 75% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’
4,330,000 
 
100% 
 
Services and training 
 
 
 
(4) Front-end fee 
     250,000
100% 
 
 
TOTAL 
100,000,000 
 
========== 
 
- 14 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of  the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$ 2,500,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories 1(a) and 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
February 1, 2005. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract;  (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, and (e) training, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project  
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in supporting sustainable 
peri-urban development in the municipality of Fuzhou by providing strategic transport 
infrastructure and by strengthening Fuzhou’s decision support system on land 
development and management. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve said 
objective: 
Part A: Road Infrastructure Development
Improvement of the transport infrastructure of Nantai Island, through the 
carrying out of the following works, including provision of technical assistance for 
construction supervision thereof: 
1. 
Nan Jiang Bin Lu Road: The construction of about 4.1 km riverside road along 
the south bank of the Min River between the 4th Min River Bridge and the line of 
the proposed Qian Heng Bridge, coupled with about 1.1 km southern approach 
road to the Qian Heng Bridge, to connect with the local road network of Nantai 
Island. 
2. 
Phase 2 of the 3rd Ring Road (South): The construction of a six-lane road of 
about 11.6 km in length, connecting the northern end of the Wanbian Bridge with 
the southern approaches to the KuiQi Bridge. 
3. 
Kuiqi Bridge: The construction of a bridge connecting with the existing Jiang Bin 
Lu and linking the southern section of the Ring Road on Nantai Island with the 
port area of Mauwei and with the road network on the north bank of the Min 
River. 
 
- 16 -
Part B: Public Transport
1. 
Enhancement of accessibility to public transport on Nantai Island, including: 
(a) 
Construction of an overnight parking and maintenance depot for buses, a 
passenger interchange terminal, and a dispatch center, and a bus priority corridor 
including provision of technical assistance for construction supervision thereof.  
(b) 
Introduction of a satellite-based vehicle location system, a geographic 
data base for public transport, and a computerized management information 
system to improve the on-street management of bus operations. 
2. 
Development of a Global Positioning System and Management Information 
System for the Public Transport General Bus Company, including provision of technical 
assistance therefor. 
 
Part C: Institutional Development 
1. 
Improving the institutional capacity of  Fuzhou’s agencies responsible for 
planning and implementing urban development plans, including development of (i) a 
GIS-based system for ongoing monitoring of land use and land values, (ii) analytical 
techniques to support  Fuzhou’s Planning Department to assess the impact of policy and 
regulation on short-term urban development, (iii) a strategic framework for evaluating 
environmental impacts and opportunities in Fuzhou’s future urban development, (iv) 
policy recommendations on physical investment and policies consistent with an 
environmentally sustainable growth policy, (v) a strategy for the management of urban 
cultural property and (vi) development of urban design guidelines, including the 
provision of staff training and technical assistance therefor. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of the following studies: (a) a long-term public transport plan, in 
Fuzhou and (b) a five (5) year forward planning program for the development of bus 
services in Fuzhou, including the provision of staff training and technical assistance 
therefor 
3. 
Strengthening the FWPMO and Project Companies capacity including the 
provision of staff training, equipment and technical assistance therefor. 
 
* * *
- 17 -
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2010. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
August 15, 2011 
2,410,000 
February 15, 2012 
2,460,000 
August 15, 2012 
2,510,000 
February 15, 2013 
2,565,000 
August 15, 2013 
2,620,000 
February 15, 2014 
2,680,000 
August 15, 2014 
2,735,000 
February 15, 2015 
2,795,000 
August 15, 2015 
2,855,000 
February 15, 2016 
2,915,000 
August 15, 2016 
2,980,000 
February 15, 2017 
3,040,000 
August 15, 2017 
3,110,000 
February 15, 2018 
3,175,000 
August 15, 2018 
3,245,000 
February 15, 2019 
3,315,000 
August 15, 2019 
3,385,000 
February 15, 2020 
3,455,000 
August 15, 2020 
3,530,000 
February 15, 2021 
3,605,000 
August 15, 2021 
3,685,000 
February 15, 2022 
3,765,000 
August 15, 2022 
3,845,000 
February 15, 2023 
3,925,000 
August 15, 2023 
4,010,000 
February 15, 2024 
4,100,000 
August 15, 2024 
4,185,000 
February 15, 2025 
4,275,000 
August 15, 2025 
4,370,000 
February 15, 2026 
4,455,000 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $7,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $4,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)        (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
- 20 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
- 21 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.  
 
