CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4821 BY 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Post-Chernobyl Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 19, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4821 BY 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF BELARUS (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.”; and 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
- 2 –
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Chernobyl Accident” means the nuclear power plant accident which 
occurred on April 26, 1986 in the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant situated in Ukraine and 
which affected, among others, the health, social and economic development of the 
population and environment in the Oblasts of Brest, Gomel and Mogliev; 
 
(b) 
“Chernobyl Affected Area of Belarus” or “CAAB” means the area 
affected by the Chernobyl Accident;  
 
(c) 
“Chernobyl Committee” means the committee under the Borrower’s 
Council of Ministers responsible for the development, implementation, supervision and 
coordination of state policy and regulations to protect the population and environment 
affected by the Chernobyl Accident and the supervision of contaminated areas where 
population is excluded and functioning in accordance with the Resolution No. 1578 
adopted by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers on October 31, 2001; 
 
(d)  
Committee for Energy Efficiency" or “CEE” means the Committee for 
Energy Efficiency under the Borrower’s Council of Ministers responsible for carrying out 
state policies for energy savings and executing state supervision over the rational use of 
fuel and heat and electric energy in accordance with the Borrower’s Council of Ministers 
Resolution No.1583 dated October 31, 2001; 
 
(e)  
"Environmental Management Plan" means environmental management 
plan, dated October 27, 2005, satisfactory to the Bank, describing measures for mitigating 
the potential environmental impact, including the Radiation Management Plan (as 
defined hereinafter), of the Project;  
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“IAEA” means the International Atomic Energy Agency; 
(h) 
“IAEA Statute” means the Statute approved on October 23, 1956 by the 
Conference on the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency held at the 
Headquarters of the United Nations and which came into force for the Borrower on July 
29, 1957; 
 
(i) 
“Laws” means the Borrower’s law “On Radiation Safety of the 
Population” No 122-Z dated January 5, 1998 published in the National Register under 
No. 2/656; the law “On the Legal Status of Territories, Subjected to Radioactive 
Contamination after the Catastrophe at Chernobyl NPP” No. 1227-XII dated November 
- 3 –
12, 1991, published in the National Register under No. 2/307 and the law “on Social 
protection of Citizens, Affected by the Catastrophe at the Chernobyl NPP” No. 634-XII, 
dated February 12, 1991 published in the National Register under No. 2-283; 
 
(j) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy; 
 
(k)  
"Operational Manual" means the manual setting forth the operational, 
management and administrative procedures for the implementation of the Project under 
terms satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(l)  
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established according to 
Regulation of the Borrower’s Council of Ministers No. 1311, dated October 3, 1997, 
Order No. 24 of the CEE, dated April 2, 1998 and Mandate approved by the Council of 
Ministers on July 19, 2005;  
 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
October 17, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 12 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(n)  
“Radiation Management Plan” means the radiation management plan 
prepared by the IAEA in consultation with the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, 
describing measures for mitigating the potential radiation impact of the Project and 
included in the EMP; and   
 
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty million 
Dollars (US$50,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
- 4 –
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of the Republic of Belarus or a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2010 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
- 5 –
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March  15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the CEE for Part A of the 
Project, the MOE for Part B of the Project, and the PMU for Part C of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, engineering, 
administrative, financial, environmental, health and safety practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.     
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
- 6 –
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, through the PMU, a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through the PMU: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
- 7 –
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall through 
the PMU: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph (c) of Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish, through the PMU, to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester.  
 
- 8 –
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Borrower shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the IAEA Statute and the Borrower’s Laws so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its tasks 
under such Statute or Laws.   
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any events specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The date of one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sovietskaya St 7 
 
220010 Minsk, Belarus 
 
Facsimile: 
 
375 17 222 45 93 
 
- 9 –
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Minsk, Republic of  Belarus as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
 
By /s/ Vladimir  G. Tsalko 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Paul Bermingham 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 10 –
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1) 
Works 
39,175,000 
80% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
7,000,000 
80% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
3,700,000 
100% 
 
services 
 
 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
125,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 
50,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
- 11 –
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to provide the population residing in selected areas 
of the Chernobyl Affected Area of Belarus with energy efficient and reliable heat and hot 
water services.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Energy Efficiency Improvements
Improving energy efficiency through:  
 
(a)  
upgrading or replacing heat generation and distribution systems, 
including replacement of old and inefficient boiler houses; replacement of old pipelines, 
and improvement of building level heat substations, regulation equipment and heat 
meters; and  
 
(b)  
(i) improving thermal insulation, including replacing windows, and 
insulating or replacing walls and roofs; and (ii) installing new efficient lighting systems, 
all in public social institutions in the health, education and social sectors.  
 
Part B: Residential Gas Connections
Connecting individual houses to the gas network where gas transmission 
pipelines exist, including: 
 
(a) 
installation of street and individual house gas pipeline connections and 
related  necessary equipment; and  
 
(b)  
installation of heating equipment in individual houses, including gas 
boilers, cookers, meters and regulators.  
 
Part C: Project Implementation and Management Support
Supporting the overall implementation and coordination of the Project, including; 
 
(a)  
design and supervision of the planned investments and public 
information campaigns, and  
- 12 –
(b)  
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and 
training. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010. 
- 13 –
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
beginning September 15, 2011 
  
2,085,000 
 
through September  15, 2022 
 
On March 15, 2023 
  
2,045,000 
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
- 14 –
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding.
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Limited International Bidding.  
 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
- 15 –
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines 
 
3. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
- 16 –
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 17 –
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Part A: Project Implementation
1.  
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, with composition 
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, the Chernobyl Committee which 
shall be responsible for the overall review and overseeing of the Project activities; 
advising on any major policy issues related to the implementation of the Project; and 
ensuring coordination between central and local governmental entities and related 
agencies involved in the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the CEE, MOE and PMU, carry the overall 
responsibility for implementing the Project with such staff and resources as shall be 
required during the execution of the Project, all in accordance with the Operational 
Manual. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
 
3.  
The Borrower shall ensure that all necessary measures are taken to maintain the 
PMU during the execution of the Project with such staff and resources as shall be 
required for the PMU to perform its duties in respect of the day-to-day management and 
implementation of the Project. The Borrower shall appoint, through the MOE and CEE, 
coordinators to assist the PMU in the implementation of the Project. 
 
4.  
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
Environmental Management Plan, including the Radiation Management Plan, shall be 
taken in a timely manner and that all legal and administrative urban planning and 
environmental permits and authorizations necessary to carry out Parts A and B of the 
Project are secured in a timely manner and with due diligence. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Environmental Management Plan or any provision thereof. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all activities under Parts A and B of the Project 
are carried out exclusively in the selected areas of the CAAB in accordance with the 
Borrower’s law on Legal Status of Territories Subjected to Radioactive Contamination 
after the Catastrophe at the Chernobyl NPP” No1227-XII, dated November 12, 1991 and 
with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
6. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare 
the bidding documents for such investments after: (a) providing satisfactory evidence to 
the Bank that the Borrower has carried out outreach information campaigns  under terms 
satisfactory to the Bank and that a sufficient number of individual houses are interested 
and financially and technically prepared to use gas connections for heating purposes; and 
- 18 –
(b) obtaining the no-objection of the Bank for the preparation of such bidding documents, 
all in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
 
Part B: Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 15, 2008, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by February 15, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
- 19 –
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $4,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
- 20 –
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
- 21 –
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
