CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7326-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Brasilia Environmentally Sustainable Project – Programa Brasília Sustentável)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
THE FEDERAL DISTRICT 
 
Dated February 23, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7326-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 23, 2006, between the INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the 
FEDERAL DISTRICT (the Borrower), which constitutes the capital of the Federative 
Republic of Brazil. 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank 
(the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
- 2 -
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
 
(a) 
 “ADASA” means Agência Reguladora de Águas e Saneamento do 
Distrito Federal, the Borrower’s Water and Sanitation Agency established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 3365 of June 16, 2004; 
 
(b) 
“ADS” means Agência de Desenvolvimento Social, the Borrower’s social 
development agency established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 3116 of December 
30, 2002; 
 
(c) 
“BELACAP” means Serviço de Conservação de Monumentos Públicos e  
Limpeza Urbana do Distrito Federal, an autarky of the Borrower in charge of the services 
of  solid waste collection and disposal; 
 
(d) 
“CAESB” means Companhia de Saneamento Ambiental do Distrito 
Federal, the Borrower’s Water and Sanitation Company, established pursuant to Decreto-
Lei No. 524 of April 08, 1969;  
 
(e) 
“CAESB Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03(b) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Co-Executing Agencies” means collectively ADS, BELACAP, IBAMA, 
NOVACAP, SEMARH, SEDUH, SECAP, and SO (the latter six as hereinafter defined); 
- 3 -
(g) 
“Co-Executing Agencies Agreements” means the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means the assessment prepared by 
the Borrower and contained in the report dated January 2005, which sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of Parts B and C of the Project; 
(i) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“IBAMA” means  Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos 
Naturais Renováveis, the Guarantor’s Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural 
Resources, established pursuant to the Guarantor’s  Law No. 7735 of February 22, 1989, 
acting through the office located in the territory of the Borrower; 
(k) 
“NOVACAP” means Companhia Urbanizadora da Nova Capital do 
Brasil, the Borrower’s Drainage and Pavement Company, established pursuant to the 
Guarantor’s Law No. 2874 of September 19, 1956; 
 
(l) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank; 
 
(m) 
“Performance Indicators” means the set of performance indicators, to be 
used for purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in the Operational 
Manual, as such indicators may be revised with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(n) 
“PMU” means the Project management unit (Unidade de Gerenciamento 
do Programa) referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated June 
29, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period of implementation of the Project, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
implementation of the Project; 
(p) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(q) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means each of the plans to be prepared by 
the Borrower for Part B.1 of the Project which sets out the principles and procedures that 
- 4 -
will govern land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation measures 
under said Part of the Project; 
(r) 
“Resettlement Framework” means the policy framework for resettlement, 
dated January 2005 , prepared by the Borrower for Part B.1 (a) (ii) of the Project, which 
sets out the policies and procedures that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of 
any resettlement action plan that may be required under the Project; 
(s) 
“SECAP” means Secretaria de Estado de Captação de Recursos 
Financeiros do Distrito Federal, the Borrower’s Secretariat for Fund Raising;  
(t) 
“SEDUH” means Secretaria do Estado de Desenvolvimento Urbano e 
Habitação de Distrito Federal, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Urban and Housing 
Development; 
(u) 
“SEMARH” means Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente e Recursos 
Hídricos do Distrito Federal, the Borrower’s Secretariat of the Environment and Water 
Resources;  
(v) 
“SO” means Secretaria de Estado de Infra-Estrutura e Obras do Distrito 
Federal, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Infrastructure and Works; 
(w) 
“Vila Estrutural” means the settlement located in the vicinity of the Jóquei 
Clube landfill in the Borrower’s territory; and 
(x) 
“Vila Estrutural Integrated Project” means the Borrower’s project for the 
planning and execution of integrated and multisectoral activities for the improvement of the 
living conditions in Vila Estrutural.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty-seven million six 
hundred and forty-three thousand Dollars ($57,643,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
- 5 -
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any amount of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account was used to make a payment for an expenditure that is 
not eligible for financing pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall, upon 
notice from the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor, promptly refund such amount to 
the Bank. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that the Guarantor has authorized the 
extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date authorized by the 
Guarantor. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
- 6 -
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause ADASA to 
carry out the Project with the assistance of CAESB and the Co-Executing Agencies, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
administrative, social, environmental, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
- 7 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall ensure that every contract for the procurement of civil 
works under the Project shall contain an annex with environmental technical specifications 
acceptable to the Bank, to be applied by the contractors in the carrying out of civil works 
under the Project. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall: (i) submit to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval, the terms of reference for all consultant services procured under the Project; and 
(ii) cause such services to be carried out in accordance with the terms of reference as 
approved by the Bank. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
delegate to ADASA, through a decree issued by the Borrower’s Governor, 
the responsibility to carry out the Project on the Borrower’s behalf, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
for purposes of carrying out Parts A.4, B.1, C.1 and C.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall transfer a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to CAESB under a subsidiary 
agreement (the CAESB Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CAESB, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, setting forth their respective roles and 
responsibilities regarding the implementation of said Parts of the Project; and  
 
(c) 
enter into an agreement (Convênio) with each Co-Executing Agency, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of coordinating the 
activities assigned to each one of said Co-Executing Agencies in the implementation of the 
Project (collectively the Co-Executing Agencies Agreements). 
Section 3.04. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of: 
(a) the Environmental Impact Assessment; (b) the Resettlement Framework; and (c) a 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), which shall contain the 
policies and procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including, inter alia: (i) the organizational structure of the Project; (ii) the Project 
procurement and financial management requirements and procedures; and (iii) the 
indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation.  In case of any inconsistency 
between a provision of the Operational Manual and this Agreement, the provision of this 
Agreement will prevail. 
- 8 -
Section 3.05. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
establish and maintain, until completion of the Project, a unit within 
ADASA (the PMU) with staff,  structure  and functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, inter alia the ability to provide training to procurement staff and controllers of 
SO, CAESB and NOVACAP and the ability to adapt the procurement module of SIG 
(Sistema de Informações Gerenciais) before the Effective Date;  
(b) 
not later than six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
employ, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
a project management consulting firm to assist the PMU in the management and 
supervision of the Project, and to provide support to the PMU in administrative, technical 
and financial matters relating to the carrying out of the Project; and 
(c) 
ensure that appropriate mechanisms are in place for the provision of 
administrative, technical and financial support to the PMU for the carrying out of the 
Project during the period previous to the employment of the project management 
consulting firm referred to in paragraph (b) above. 
Section 3.06. 
For the purposes of implementing Parts B.1, B.2, C.1, C.2, C.3 
and C.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 (a) 
prior to the commencement of works under Part B.1 of the Project, 
furnish to the Bank for its review and approval: (i) a Resettlement Action Plan; and (ii) an 
environmental license issued by the appropriate environmental authority of the 
Guarantor; 
(b) 
prior to the commencement of works under Part C.1 of the Project, 
furnish to the Bank for its review and approval an environmental license issued by the 
appropriate environmental authority of the Guarantor; 
(c)  
prior to the commencement of works under Part B.2, and C.2 of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank for its review and approval an environmental license issued 
by the appropriate environmental authority of the Guarantor; and 
(d) 
prior to the commencement of works under Part C.3 and C.4 of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank for its review and approval: (a) a study on the design, 
location and potential impact of leachate collection and treatment plants (if not already 
covered by the EIA); and (b) an environmental license issued by the appropriate 
environmental authority of the Guarantor. 
- 9 -
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and biannually thereafter 
during the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; 
and 
 (c) 
(i)  
review with the Bank, within no more than two months after each 
such report’s preparation, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section; and 
 
(ii) 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
report and the Bank and the Borrower's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ADASA and CAESB to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
- 10 -
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause ADASA to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Report-based Disbursements, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
- 11 -
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (the 
FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
the PMU has been established in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank;  
 
(c) 
the Governor’s Decree referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement 
has been signed and the CAESB Agreement and the Co-Executing Agencies Agreements 
(Convênios) have been signed on behalf of the parties thereto. 
- 12 -
Section 5.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Loan has been duly registered by the 
Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
Section 5.03. 
The date May 24, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Governor of the Borrower  is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C.  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Governo do Distrito Federal 
 
Palácio Buriti – Praça do Buriti  
 
70075-900 Brasília – Distrito Federal 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3352-0390 
 
- 13 -
With copy to: 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
SECAP – Secretaría de Estado de Captação de Recursos Financeiros do 
Distrito Federal 
SCN Quadra 4 Pétala “C” – Centro Empresarial VARIG – Mezzanino 
70710-500 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3961-5050 
- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Tuck 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
FEDERAL DISTRICT 
 
By /s/ Joaquim Domingos Roriz 
Authorized Representative 
 
WITNESSED BY: 
 
By /s/ Rossana Cunha Rêgo  
 
 
 
By /s/ Nelson Tadeu Filipelli 
Secretária de Estado de Captação  
Secretário Chefe da Agência de Infra-Estrutura 
de Recursos Financeiros do Distrito  
 
 
e Desenvolvimento Urbano do Distrito  
Federal-SECAP 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal- ADINDU 
By /s/ David José de Matos  
 
 
 
By /s/ Célio Biavati Filho 
 
Presidente da ADASA 
Coordenador- Geral da UGP/ADASA 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works: 
 
(a) under Part B, C.3 and C.4 
35,943,000 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(b) under Part C.2 of the Project 
4,500,000 
23% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services 
13,900,000 
100% 
 
(3) Goods: 
 
(a) under Parts A and D of the Project 
1,200,000 
100% 
 
(b) under Part C of the Project 
1,000,000 
20% 
 
(4) Fee  
576,430 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
523,570
TOTAL 
57,643,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
3. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
such reports to include the FMR or any other type of report acceptable to the Bank and any 
- 16 -
other information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank 
only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the date of such request. Disbursements will be made by the 
Bank to an account of the Borrower to be operated by the Borrower under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to ensure the supply of quality water resources to 
meet the demands of the Borrower’s metropolitan area by improving environmental 
planning and management activities.  These activities will be further enhanced by the 
carrying out of poverty reduction strategies in certain urban areas and the rehabilitation of 
the environment around key river basins.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Policy and Institutional Development
1. 
Provide technical assistance to SEDUH to: (i) improve its territory development 
and land management policies; (ii) develop updated management technical tools; and (iii) 
assess and improve its institutional arrangements and knowledge capacity. 
2. 
Develop studies and provide technical support to SEMARH and IBAMA in the 
area of environment and water resource management to enable these agencies to address 
key metropolitan and local urban challenges.   
3. 
Provide technical assistance to BELACAP to improve its solid waste 
management policies and increase its institutional knowledge capacity.  
4. 
Provide technical assistance: (i) for the establishment and initial operation of a 
sanitation company for the adjacent areas of the Borrower’s territory; and (ii) to CAESB 
to finalize its environmental certification system. 
Part B: Social Inclusion and Environmental Protection
1. 
(a) 
Under the Vila Estrutural Integrated  Project initiative: (i) improve living 
conditions of the inhabitants of Vila Estrutural by improving local governance and 
providing social and basic services; (ii) include the community in regular city planning 
and service activities by developing a resettlement plan and improving Vila Estrutural’s 
urban design; and (iii) develop a technical proposal for the rehabilitation and protection 
of Vila Estrutural’s surrounding areas to mitigate environmental degradation.   
- 18 -
(b) 
Carry out proposed civil works and promote community participation in 
the Vila Estrutural Integrated  Project. 
2. 
(a) 
Develop a social inclusion plan for the scavengers in the Jóquei Clube 
solid waste landfill to enable them to improve their working and social condition, said 
plan to include, inter alia: (i) professional development and personal effectiveness 
programs; and (ii) social support activities.  
(b) 
Execute said social inclusion plan by carrying out the social and 
technical activities identified therein and by carrying out civil works and providing 
equipment to scavengers.   
Part C: Water Resources Protection
1. 
Abate the pollution of the Rocinha, Lajinha and Coqueiros rivers by improving 
sanitation services in Águas Lindas de Goiás. 
2. 
Abate the pollution of the Vicente Pires stream by improving sanitation services 
in neighboring low-income communities and carrying out the required civil works to that 
effect.    
3. 
Determine a course of action for future closure of the Jóquei Clube solid waste 
landfill based on the various alternatives proposed in technical designs and carry out civil 
works according to approved designs.  
4. 
Construct a solid waste sanitary landfill according to technical designs developed 
and approved under the Project. 
5. 
Use tertiary treatment levels to disinfect waste water sludge produced by the 
Borrower’s waste water treatment plants.  
Part D: Project Management
1.  
Support the establishment and operation of the PMU, as well as the overall Project 
administration, supervision, auditing activities and monitoring and evaluation. 
 
2. 
Provide technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of SECAP.  
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2010. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  
(a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first 
Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which the Currency Conversion applies.  
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2010 
 
through September 15, 2021 
4.17% 
 
On March 15, 2022 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, 
the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment 
Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 20 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such subparagraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a 
separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated 
May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding: Goods estimated to cost $100,000 or more but 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost $500,000 or more 
but less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional 
provisions, using bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, in a standardized form for 
the Project: 
 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
- 22 -
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
in at least one newspaper of national circulation in the Guarantor’s territory; 
 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; 
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping procedures, and a standard request for 
quotations acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for assignments costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
- 23 -
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the report on the qualifications and experience 
of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
