CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7395-PH 
Loan Agreement  
 
(National Sector Support for Health Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 3, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
- 2 -
LOAN NUMBER 7395-PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 3, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES 
(the 
Borrower) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS  (A)  the Borrower is committed to implementing its health sector 
reform program through issuing the Health Sector Reform Agenda dated December 1999, 
Administrative Order No.2005-0023, entitled “Implementing Guidelines for Formula One 
for Health as Implementation Framework for Health Reforms”, dated August 30, 2005, 
and preparing the medium term Health Sector Expenditure Framework in 2006;  
(B) 
for the project as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), 
the Borrower has approved the Project proposal (DBCC Resolution No.2006-2, dated 
April 4, 2006), which includes, among other things, certain of the Department of Health’s 
national health reform and budget reform measures; and the Borrower’s Philippine 
Health Insurance Corporation (PHIC) has adopted its Board Resolution No. 892, dated 
March 24, 2006, which includes PHIC’s health insurance financing reform measures;       
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(D) 
the Borrower expects to receive from the European Commission (EC), a 
grant (the EC Grant) in an amount of one million Euro (�1,000,000) to assist in financing 
Part D.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank as Administrator of those grant funds received 
from EC (the EC Trust Fund Grant Agreement); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
- 2 -
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on the 
goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing 
of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. 
To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the 
amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.”. 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
 “Administrative Order No.2005-0023” means the administrative order 
No.2005-0023 issued by DOH, dated August 30, 2005, entitled “Implementing 
Guidelines for Formula One for Health as Implementation Framework for Health 
Reforms”.   
(b) 
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the central bank of the Republic of 
the Philippines, and any successor thereto. 
- 3 -
(c) 
“Convergence Provinces” means provinces designated by the Borrower 
as priority provinces for the implementation of its health sector reform program 
implementation plan, as described in DOH Administrative Order No.2005-0023, dated 
August 30, 2005, and “Convergence Province” means any of the “Convergence 
Provinces.”    
(d) 
“Convergence Province Partner” means a Convergence Province which 
has been selected, with the concurrence of the Bank, to receive a Local Health System 
Reform Grant from the Borrower for the purpose of carrying out activities under Part D.2 
of the Project pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
and “Convergence Province Partners” means, collectively, the plural thereof.  The use of 
this term shall not be construed as creating a legal partnership under any law. 
(e) 
“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget and Management, 
and any successor thereto.  
(f) 
“DOH” means the Borrower’s Department of Health, and any successor 
thereto. 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(j) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which begins 
on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year. 
(k) 
“Health Sector Expenditure Framework” and the acronym “HSEF” mean 
a plan and projection of health expenditure, prepared by DOH and updated from time to 
time, for the following three (3) to five (5) Fiscal Years, including the planned 
expenditures for DOH and agencies attached to DOH; and other health sector 
expenditures included in the Borrower’s national budget, foreign assisted projects and 
programs in the health sector.  
(l) 
“Health Sector Reform Agenda” means the Borrower’s comprehensive 
framework for sector-wide reforms in the financing and provision of health care, 
published by DOH in December 1999, and as further updated as of the date of this 
Agreement. 
(m) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and 
cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics: (i) a 
- 4 -
close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas; (ii) 
self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group; 
(iii) an indigenous language, often different from the national language; (iv) presence of 
customary social and political institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented 
production. 
(n) 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the Indigenous 
Peoples planning framework dated March 29, 2006, duly adopted by DOH, which sets 
forth the measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that the health sector reform 
program supported by the Project adequately addresses the needs and cultural preferences 
of Indigenous Peoples and that Indigenous People participate in the benefit of the reform 
program under the Project. 
(o) 
“Indigents” means households with income below a level defined by the 
Borrower from time to time through socio-economic surveys or means tests in 
accordance with the provisions of the National Health Insurance Act of 1995, February 
14, 1995 (R.A.7875) as amended by R.A.9241, and “Indigent” means any of the 
“Indigents”.  
(p) 
“Indigent Program” means the indigent program of NHIP to provide 
health insurance for Indigents, established by the National Health Insurance Act of 1995, 
February 14, 1995 (R.A.7875) as amended by R.A.9241, under which Indigents are 
subsidized partially by LGUs where said Indigents reside. 
(q) 
“LGU” means a local government unit which is a political subdivision of 
the Republic of the Philippines at the provincial, city, municipal, or Barangay level, and 
“LGUs” mean, collectively, the plural thereof. 
(r) 
“LGU Partner” means a provincial LGU, a municipal LGU or a city 
LGU which: (i) meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for 
Performance-based Public Health Awards; and (ii) has been selected by DOH, with 
concurrence of the Bank, to receive the proceeds of a Performance-based Public Health 
Award; and “LGU Partners” means, collectively, the plural thereof.  The use of this term 
shall not be construed as creating a legal partnership under any law. 
(s) 
“Local Health Systems Reform Grant” means a grant made by the 
Borrower through DOH to a Convergence Province Partner out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to finance, in part, the carrying out of activities under Part D.2 of the Project, 
according to the provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and “Local 
Health Systems Reform Grants” means, collectively, the plural thereof.  
(t) 
“National Contribution Subsidy for Indigents” means a payment made by 
the Borrower to PHIC to finance, in part, the health insurance premiums of Indigents 
enrolled in NHIP’s Indigent Program, in accordance with the provisions of the National 
Health Insurance Act 1995, February 14, 1995 (R.A.7875) as Amended by R.A.9241.  
- 5 -
(u) 
“National Health Insurance Program” and “NHIP” mean the Borrower’s 
compulsory health insurance program established pursuant to the Borrower’s National 
Health Insurance Act of 1995 (R.A.7875), as amended by R.A.9241, for the provision of  
universal health insurance coverage and ensuring affordable, acceptable, available and 
accessible health care services for all citizens of the Philippines. 
(v) 
“Operational Manual for Performance-Based Public Health Awards” 
means the manual referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as said 
manual may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.    
(w) 
“Operational Manual for Local Health System Reform Grants” means 
the manual referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as said manual 
may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.    
(x) 
“Performance-based Public Health Award” means a grant made by the 
Borrower through DOH to an LGU Partner out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and “Performance-
based Public Health Awards” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
(y) 
“PHIC” means the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation, a tax-
exempt government corporation attached to the DOH, established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s National Health Insurance Act of 1995, February 14, 1995 (R.A.7875), as 
amended by R.A.9241, and designated by the Borrower as a provider of health insurance 
services under Part A of the Project, and any successor thereto. 
(z) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated       
May 8, 2006, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
(aa) 
“Project Operational Manual” and “POM” mean the manual, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to be adopted, maintained and implemented by the Borrower in accordance 
with paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as said manual may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(bb) 
“Qualified LGU” means an LGU which has been evaluated by PHIC as 
having adopted methods of identifying and validating lists of Indigents enrolled in the 
LGU’s Indigent Program acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank. 
(cc) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
- 6 -
(dd) 
“Sectoral Management and Coordination Team” means the team referred 
to in paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.   
(ee) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(ff) 
“Technical Coordination Group” means the group referred to in 
paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.   
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to each of the LGUs implementing 
the Project.  
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred and 
ten million Dollars ($110,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:  
(i) 
for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by 
the Borrower on account of a National Contribution Subsidy for 
Indigents under Part A of the Project to meet the reasonable cost 
of services required for the carrying out of said Part of the 
Project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested;  
(ii) 
for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by 
the Borrower on account of a Performance-based Public Health 
Award under Part B.2 of the Project, and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested;  
(iii) 
for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by 
the Borrower on account of a Local Health Systems Reform 
Grant under Part D.2 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the carrying out of said Part of 
the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested;  
- 7 -
(iv) 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, consultants’ 
services, training, workshops, and operating costs required for 
Parts C, D1, and D.2 of the Project, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan;  
(v) 
in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; and  
(vi) 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 
4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account for purposes of Parts B, C, and D of the Project 
to be carried out by DOH (“Special Account”).  Said special deposit account shall be 
opened and maintained in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by 
the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the unwithdrawn loan balance, 
subject to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
- 8 -
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
- 9 -
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall, through DOH, carry out the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
managerial, economic, financial and public health practices and sound environmental and 
social standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the execution of the Project, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.  
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through DOH, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall: (i) through DOH, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project; and 
(ii) cause PHIC to maintain a financial management system, including records and 
- 10 -
accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to Part A of the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall:  
(i) 
(A) through DOH have its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (B) cause 
PHIC to have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal 
year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall, through DOH: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
- 11 -
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 9 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, 
through DOH, prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank , which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Management Report shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
- 12 -
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the Borrower’s National 
Health Insurance Act of 1995, February 14, 1995 (R.A.7875), as amended by R.A.9241, 
the Health Sector Reform Agenda or its implementation framework as described in 
Administrative Order No.2005-0023 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower, through DOH, has adopted the Project 
Operational Manual, acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of      
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 
Roxas Blvd. 
 
Manila, Philippines 
 
- 13 -
Cable address:   
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN 
 
 
 
 
(63-2) 523-9216 
 
Manila 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
 
 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By: /s/ Margarito Teves  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed 
in Dollars)
% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) 
National 
Contribution 
Subsidy for Indigents under 
Part A of the Project 
 
(2) Goods under Part B.1 of the 
Project 
 
40,000,000 
 
38,000,000 
(3) 
Goods, 
consultants’ 
services, training, workshops, 
and operating costs under Parts 
C, D.1 and D.2 of the Project 
 
1,225,000 
 
(4) Performance-based  Public 
Health Awards under Part B.2 
of the Project 
 
500,000 
 
100% of the amount for  
National Contribution 
Subsidy for Indigents   
Disbursed for Qualified 
LGUs 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% of the amount for 
Performance-based  Public 
Health Awards  
Disbursed  
 
(5) Local Health Systems 
Reform Grants under Part D.2 
of the Project   
10,000,000 
100% the amount for Local 
Health 
Systems 
Reform 
Grants disbursed 
 
(6) Front end fee  
 
275,000 
 
Amount due under Section 
2.04 of this Agreement  
- 15 -
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed 
in Dollars)
% of 
Expenditures 
To be Financed
(7) Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under 
Section 2.09(c) of 
this Agreement  
 
(8) Unallocated 
20,000,000
Total  
 
110,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “operating costs” means the 
reasonable expenditures directly related to the Project incurred by the Borrower, on 
account of Project implementation, management, coordination, and monitoring and 
evaluation, in respect of local travel costs, fuel, vehicle and equipment maintenance and 
repair, office supplies, communications costs, logistics and translation services, 
production and reproduction of documents required for Project implementation, including 
training materials, and allowances for doctors and other health professionals to address 
issues of deployment and shortage of doctors and other health professionals. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Category (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 2006; 
(b) 
payments made for any National Contribution Subsidy for Indigents 
under Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the 
Borrower has caused PHIC to duly adopted an Indigent Program Support Implementation 
Manual for implementation of Part A of the Project, acceptable to the Bank;   
(c) 
payments made for Performance-based Public Health Awards under 
Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the Borrower, 
through DOH, has duly adopted an Operational Manual for Performance-based Public 
Health Awards, acceptable to the Bank; and   
(d) 
payments made for Local Health Systems Reform Grants under Category 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the Borrower, through 
DOH, has duly adopted an Operational Manual for Local Health Systems Reform Grants, 
acceptable to the Bank.      
- 16 -
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) National 
Contribution Subsidy for Indigents; (e) training, workshops, and operating costs; (f) 
Performance-based Public Health Awards; and (g) Local Health Systems Reform Grants; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
Subject to the Bank’s approval, the Borrower may request withdrawals from the 
Loan Account to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other 
information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit to the 
Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project 
for the six-month period following the date of such request.  
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng 
Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, for the purpose of Parts B, C and D of 
the Project to be carried out by DOH. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
- 17 -
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
- 18 -
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 19 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$44,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank, a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
- 20 -
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 21 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving priority 
public health outcomes and increasing the utilization of health services by the poor in 
areas and for conditions or diseases subject to intervention under the Project; and             
(ii) increasing financial protection of Indigents from health care costs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Health Financing 
Expanding and sustaining PHIC’s Indigent Program for providing health insurance to 
Indigents through the payment of National Contribution Subsidies for Indigents identified 
using acceptable, defined methods of identification or means testing.  
 
Part B: Public Health Services
1. 
Purchase of Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) vaccines (including 
hepatitis B vaccines), tuberculosis control drugs, laboratory supplies, HIV/AIDS drugs, 
micronutrients, and other related drugs and commodities (excluding pesticides), and 
information and education materials to support diseases prevention and control measures 
to eliminate (where feasible), or reduce and control infectious disease and micronutrient 
deficiencies.  
 
2. 
Supporting the development of: (a) pilot service performance agreements 
between DOH and participating LGUs for carrying out Part B.1 of the Project; and (b) a 
pilot Performance-based Public Health Awards scheme for LGUs that meet or exceed the 
performance targets set forth in the above-mentioned service performance agreements.     
 
Part C:
Health Sector Regulation
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s Bureau of Food and Drugs in 
regulating the manufacture, importation and distribution of pharmaceuticals through the 
provision of technical assistance for improving its business processes and improving the 
services of its quality control laboratories. 
- 23 -
Part D: Health Sector Governance Reform
1. 
Provision of support to assist in the implementation of DOH’s health human 
resources reform strategies for addressing health sector workforce issues, in particular, 
measures to improve deployment of health professionals to rural areas, and shortage of 
doctors and other health professionals.    
 
2. 
Provision of Local Health Systems Reform Grants to Convergence Province 
Partners to assist them in implementing the Borrower’s health sector reform program 
implementation plan in the areas of local capacity building, and monitoring and 
evaluation, pursuant to a sector development approach, based on a province-wide 
investment plan for health in each province.   
 
 
3. 
Strengthening DOH’s capacity in the area of public financial management, 
internal audit, information management and procurement, through provision of training, 
technical assistance, and required computer hardware and software.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2010. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning December 15, 2014 through December 15, 2025          4.17% 
 
On June 15, 2026 
            4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
- 25 -
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding. Goods which the Bank agrees can only 
be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding.  
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding and the additional provisions in the Annex to this 
Schedule. 
 
3. 
Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
- 27 -
4. 
Direct Contracting. Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies. Vaccines and drugs regardless of cost 
may be procured directly from the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), World 
Health Organization (WHO), or Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the United 
Nations (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the 
Procurement Guidelines.
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Individual Consultants.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to the Bank’s 
prior approval. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract to be 
procured pursuant to paragraph B.5 of Section II of this Schedule, regardless of its 
contract value; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more; (c) the first three (3) contracts for goods (including contracts for services (other 
- 28 -
than Consultants’ Services), regardless of their contract value; (d) each contract for goods 
procured pursuant to paragraph B.4 of Section II of this Schedule, regardless of its 
contract value; (e) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (f) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (g) 
each contract for consultants’ services  procured on a single source or sole source basis.  
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
- 29 -
Annex 
To 
SCHEDULE 4 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
With respect to goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of Part B of 
Section II to Schedule 4, the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures of the 
Borrower shall apply, except that, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank in writing, the 
following procedures shall be followed: 
1. 
Eligibility screening shall not be applied.  However, bids that do not contain any 
of the following documents will not pass the documentary compliance check: (a) 
evidence of the required financial, technical or production capability; (b) audited 
financial statements; (c) credit line, or cash deposit certificate; (d) bid security; and       
(e) authority of the bid signatory.   
2. 
In the case of prequalification, if any bidder is denied access to the bidding 
process for reasons unrelated to its financial and technical qualifications to perform the 
contract, prior concurrence of the Bank shall be sought.  
3. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with prior concurrence of the Bank in 
advance of bidding.  However, the Approved Budget Estimate may be disclosed in the 
advertisement or in the bidding documents.  
4. 
Domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the evaluation of bids, 
and other preferences in effect in the Philippines will not be used except with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
5. 
Suppliers and contractors will not be required to purchase only local goods or 
supplies or materials.  
6. 
In case of contracts for prior review, modifications exceeding fifteen          
percent (15%) of contract amount and material changes in the conditions during 
implementation require prior Bank concurrence.   
7. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if interested, 
without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint venture with, local firms.  
Moreover, foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, even without registration, licensing, 
and other government authorizations, leaving these requirements for after award and 
before signing of contract.   
8. 
For works contract, the experience qualification requirement shall be: (a) at least 
one (1) previous contract at eighty percent (80%) of the estimated cost of the contract 
being procured; and (b) an annual turnover from all works averaged over the last       
- 30 -
three (3) years equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the contract 
being procured. 
- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project: 
(a) 
the Sectoral Management and Coordination Team within DOH, assigned 
with such functions, staff, and responsibilities for the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be responsible for providing overall management and coordination of implementation of 
the health sector reform program, including the activities supported by the Project; and  
(b) 
the Technical Coordination Group within DOH, assigned with such 
functions, staff, and responsibilities for the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
responsible for providing technical leadership on a regular basis for implementation of 
the health sector reform program, including the activities supported by the Project. 
 
Project Implementation 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through DOH: 
 
(a) 
adopt and thereafter implement the Project Operational Manual, 
acceptable to the Bank, which includes, inter alia: (i) implementation arrangements; (ii) 
financial management and audit procedures consistent with Article IV of this Agreement; 
(iii) a procurement manual with procurement arrangements consistent with Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; (iv) the Indigenous People Planning Framework; (v) monitoring and 
evaluation procedures, which are to be coordinated with monitoring and evaluation 
procedures for the overall implementation of the health sector reform program; and (vi) 
guidelines for the preparation of annual updates of the budget for expenditures to be 
financed from the Loan proceeds and implementation of work programs of DOH; and   
(b) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said Project 
Operational Manual without the prior concurrence of the Bank. In case of any conflict 
between the provisions of this Agreement and those of said Manual, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
Carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause PHIC to: 
 
(a) 
adopt and thereafter the Indigent Program Support Implementation 
Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which includes, among other things, the following: 
 
(i) 
guidelines, procedures, and methods to be followed by PHIC for 
evaluating whether LGUs have adopted methods of identifying 
- 32 -
Indigents and for validating the lists of the Indigents enrolled by 
LGUs in the Indigent Program, acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Bank (Qualified LGUs);  
(ii) 
requirements for PHIC to submit quarterly to DBM, a billing 
statement, accompanied by specified supporting documentation, 
including that the Bank’s approval is required for the list of 
LGUs evaluated as adopting acceptable methods of identifying 
Indigents mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) above, the validated 
list of the Indigents in said LGUs, the calculation of National 
Contribution Subsidy for Indigents payable, and the certificate of 
availability of funds or certification from PHIC of actual 
remittance of premiums from the listed LGUs, as a basis for 
approval of each payment of the National Contribution Subsidy 
for Indigents from the proceeds of the Loan; 
(iii) 
requirements for DBM to submit quarterly withdrawal 
applications to the Bank for payment of the National 
Contribution Subsidy for Indigents from the proceeds of the 
Loan, accompanied by the supporting documentation referred to 
in the sub-paragraph (ii) above;  
(iv) 
requirements for PHIC to submit a quarterly report to the Bank 
within six (6) weeks after the end of each quarter showing the 
statement of income of the Indigent Program, including the 
premium financed by the Loan proceeds, and an overall 
statement of income and expenses for each of its insurance group 
(including government and private sector employees, Indigents, 
individually paying members, and retiree members of the 
National Health Insurance Program).  The report shall be on a 
cumulative basis with current quarter figures shown separately; 
and 
(v) 
requirements for PHIC to submit an actuarial underwriting report 
to the Bank for each Fiscal Year of Project implementation as a 
whole within four (4) months after the end of such Fiscal Year. 
(b) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said Indigent 
Program Support Implementation Manual without the prior concurrence of the Bank.  In 
case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of said Manual, 
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
4. 
For carrying out health service delivery reforms, supported in part by Part B of 
the Project, the Borrower shall, through DOH:  
- 33 -
(a) 
adopt and thereafter implement the Operational Manual for Performance-
based Public Health Awards, acceptable to the Bank, which includes, inter alia: (i) 
criteria and methodology for determining whether an LGU is eligible for a Performance-
based Public Health Award; (ii) implementation responsibilities of DOH and LGU 
Partners in the operation of the Performance-based Public Health Awards program; (iii) 
specification of eligible expenditures that may be financed from the proceeds of 
Performance-based Public Health Award; (iv) financial management and audit 
procedures consistent with Article IV of this Agreement; and (v) monitoring and 
reporting arrangements.   
(b) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said  
Operational Manual for Performance-based Public Health Awards without the prior 
concurrence of the Bank.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this 
Agreement and those of said Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
5. 
No LGU Partner shall be eligible for financing from the proceeds of the 
Performance-based Public Health Award, until the following conditions have been met: 
(a) DOH and the relevant LGU have entered into a service performance agreement, with 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the concerned LGU has met or 
exceeded the performance targets set forth in the above mentioned service performance 
agreement.    
6. 
For carrying out health sector governance reforms, supported in part by Part D of 
the Project, the Borrower shall, through DOH: 
(a) 
adopt and thereafter implement the Operational Manual for Local Health 
Systems Reform Grants, acceptable to the Bank, which includes, inter alia: (i) 
implementation responsibilities of the Convergence Province Partners; (ii) financial 
management and audit procedures consistent with Article IV of this Agreement; (iii)  
procurement arrangements consistent with Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iv) monitoring 
and reporting arrangements; and (v) arrangements for coordination of local health 
systems reform implementation among all stakeholders, including DOH, PHIC, and other 
organizations providing official development assistance to the Convergence Provinces. 
(b) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said 
Operational Manual for Local Health Systems Reform Grants without the prior 
concurrence of the Bank.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this 
Agreement and those of said Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
7. 
No Convergence Province Partner shall be eligible for financing from the 
proceeds of the Local Health Systems Reform Grant until the Convergence Province 
Partner has entered into a memorandum of agreement (MOA) with DOH, with terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank, whereby DOH has obtained rights adequate to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the rights to: 
- 34 -
(a) 
require said Convergence Province Partner to carry out the activities 
under Part D.2 of the Project with due diligence and in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operational Manual for Local Health Systems Reform Grant; 
(b) 
require said Convergence Province Partner to carry out the activities 
under Part D.2 of the Project in accordance with sound financial management standards 
and maintain adequate records;  
(c) 
inspect, by itself, or jointly with representatives of said Convergence 
Province Partner, and representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, any 
relevant records and documents; and  
 
(d) 
suspend or terminate the right of said Convergence Province Partner  to 
the use of the proceeds of Local Health Systems Reform Grant upon failure to meet any 
of its obligations under its respective MOA. 
Indigenous Peoples
8. 
The Borrower shall, through DOH:  
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with principles and measures set forth 
in the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework to ensure that the design and 
implementation of said activities adequately addresses the needs and cultural preferences 
of Indigenous Peoples; and  
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the 
Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, and the achievement of the objectives of said 
Framework; and thereafter include the results of such monitoring and evaluation 
activities in each report referred to in paragraph 9 below. 
 
Project Monitoring and Reporting
9. 
The Borrower shall, through DOH: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank and 
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, the following reports: 
(i) 
annual reports, not later than March 31 in each calendar year, 
beginning by March 31, 2007: (A) integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities, performed pursuant to sub-
- 35 -
paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of  the Project by it during the twelve-month period 
preceding the date of said report; and (B) setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and  
(ii) 
a mid-term report, by June 30, 2008, integrating: (A) the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)(i) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (B) the 
expenditure projections of the health sector based on the updated 
Health Sector Expenditure Framework for Fiscal Year 2009-
2011 and the proposed reallocation of the Loan proceeds from 
the unallocated portion of the Loan for Fiscal Year 2009 and 
2010.  
(c) 
after furnishing: 
(i) 
each report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this      
paragraph 9, review said report with the Bank, and promptly 
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and  
(ii) 
the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph 9, 
review said report with the Bank, by September 30, 2008, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
- 36 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators/Results Framework 
Target Values 
Indicators 
2006 
 
2007 
2008 
2009 
2010 
Increase in 
proportion of 
DOH budget 
allocated on the 
basis of criteria of 
need and 
performance (1) 
0
At least 5% of 
existing 
maintenance 
and other 
operating 
expenses 
(MOOE), and 
at least 5% of 
any increment 
in DOH 
MOOE budget 
At least 5% of 
existing 
MOOE, and at 
least 5% of 
any increment 
in DOH 
MOOE budget 
At least 5% of 
existing 
MOOE, and at 
least 5% of 
any increment 
in DOH 
MOOE budget 
At least 5% of 
existing 
MOOE, and at 
least 5% of 
any increment 
in DOH 
MOOE budget 
Increase in 
number of 
development 
projects or 
programs using 
HSEF to plan and 
program their 
health sector 
support (1) 
1 Foreign 
Assisted 
Project 
10% of 
Fourmula 1 
PPAs 
(programs, 
projects & 
activities)  
30% of 
Fourmula 1 
PPAs 
(cumulative) 
70% of 
Fourmula 1 
PPAs 
(cumulative) 
100% of 
Fourmula 1 
PPAs 
(cumulative) 
Increase in 
number of LGUs 
identifying the 
poor using 
acceptable, 
defined methods 
of means testing 
and enrolling them 
in NHIP Indigent 
Program (2) 
65 LGUs 
311 LGUs 
(cumulative) 
507 LGUs 
(cumulative) 
993 LGUs 
(cumulative) 
993 LGUs 
(cumulative) 
- 37 -
Increase coverage 
rate of fully 
immunized 
children above 
baseline 
At least 3 
percentage 
points increase 
At least 5 
percentage 
points increase 
At least 7 
percentage 
points increase 
At least 9 
percentage 
points increase 
At least 10 
percentage 
points increase 
Increase TB case 
detection rate 
72% 
74% 
78% 
At least 80% 
At least 80% 
Increase TB cure 
rate 
81% 
83% 
85% 
At least 85% 
At least 85% 
Evidence of a 
statistically 
significant  
improvement 
(wherever 
feasible) or 
validation by an 
alternative 
scientific method 
of improvement, 
in prevention, 
diagnosis or 
treatment rates in 
participating 
LGUs for diseases 
or conditions 
subject to 
performance 
agreements and 
grants   
0
0
5 LGUs 
10 LGUs 
(cumulative) 
15 LGUs 
(cumulative) 
LGU scorecard 
implemented and 
scores improve in 
convergence sites 
Scorecard 
methodology 
and guidelines 
completed and 
disseminated 
by end of year 
Scorecard 
implemented 
and data issued 
by end of year 
Mid-term 
evaluation 
finds progress 
in scores 
 
End of term 
evaluation 
finds further 
progress in 
scores 
- 38 -
Significant 
quantified 
reductions in  
date-expiry, stock-
outs and losses of 
public health 
commodity stocks 
at defined levels 
in supply chain 
Quarterly 
reporting on  
inventory & 
method of 
forecasting 
quantities 
required of 
public health 
commodities 
satisfactory to 
the Bank in 
place 
Baseline data 
on stock levels 
and losses 
produced and 
targets agreed 
for years 3-5 
Targets agreed 
in year 2 met 
Targets agreed 
in year 3 met 
Targets agreed 
in year 4 met 
Full compliance 
with the 
Borrower’s 
procurement law 
and standards, 
monitored using 
agency 
procurement 
benchmark 
indicators 
DOH 
procurement 
manual 
completed 
DOH 
procurement 
manual 
implemented 
Processing 
lead times 
fully met 
Agency 
indicators 
maintained or 
improved 
Agency 
indicators 
maintained or 
improved 
eNGAS roll out; 
quarterly reports 
to managers on 
performance 
against plan and 
budget under 
GAA program 
structure 
eNGAS 
training  in 16 
regions; 
installation of 
eNGAS to 8 
regions; 
reporting 
formats agreed 
installation of 
eNGAS to 8 
regions; 
reporting 
formats used 
eNGAS roll 
out completed; 
quarterly 
reports 
initiated 
Quarterly 
report 
generated from 
eNGAS 
Quarterly 
report 
generated from 
eNGAS 
IA staff trained; 
annual IA plan of 
scheduled audits 
implemented; 
updating and 
improvement in 
agency IA 
benchmark 
indicators 
IA conducted 
for 2006; IA 
plan developed 
for 2007 
At least 50% 
IA staff 
trained; 2007 
IA plan 
implemented 
2008 IA plan 
implemented 
2009 IA plan 
implemented 
At least 80% 
IA staff 
trained; 2010 
IA plan 
implemented 
