CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7366-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
(Rural Electrification Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 19, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7366-PE 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) by agreement of even date herewith (the Grant Agreement) 
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank, acting as an implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust 
Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF, has agreed to make a 
grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate amount of 
$10,000,000 to assist in financing Part D of the Project and in co-financing Parts B, C 
and E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement on terms and 
conditions set forth in the Grant Agreement; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, as amended 
through May 1, 2004 and with the modifications set below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the words 
“corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
- 2 -
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Administrative Financial Agreement” means an agreement (comisión de 
confianza) executed between PEU and a Participating Bank outlining in specific terms 
the conditions for : (i) payments made for Rural Electrification Sub-Projects under Part A 
of the Project; and (ii) loans made for Small Hydro Sub-Projects under Part D of the 
Project, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual, in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement for payments made for Rural Electrification 
Sub-Projects under Part A of the Project, and in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to the Grant 
Agreement for loans made for Small Hydro Sub-Projects under Part D of the Project; 
(b) 
“Annual Operation Plan” means a plan to be prepared by PEU and 
detailing activities to be financed under the Project as updated each year in accordance 
with paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the 
Grant Agreement; 
(c) 
“Banco de la Nación” means the Borrower’s public sector bank created 
and operating, inter alia, under the Borrower’s Law No. 16000, dated January 27, 1966 
and the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 199, dated June 12, 1981; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
services and consultant services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means a document 
dated December 5, 2005 (published and available to the public on the website 
www.minem.gob.pe/ministerio/index.asp
under 
the 
title 
“marco_evaluacion.pdf”) 
outlining environmental and social implementation procedures, mitigation measures and 
monitoring procedures for the Project as well as measures for chance finding of cultural 
heritage property, as said framework may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s 
prior approval; 
(g) 
“Facility Agreement” means an agreement executed between MEM and 
a selected Fund Manager outlining in specific terms the conditions for selecting, 
financing and managing activities under Part D of the Project in accordance with 
procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual and in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 
to the Grant Agreement; 
- 3 -
(h) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Fund Manager” means the private company to be selected to manage 
activities under Part D of the Project, as contracted in accordance with Section III of 
Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement under a Facility Agreement; 
(j) 
“Grant Agreement” means the GEF Trust Fund Grant agreement of even 
date herewith, between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Grant Agreement; 
(k) 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Framework” means a document dated January 3, 
2006 
(published 
and 
available 
to 
the 
public 
on 
the 
website 
www.minem.gob.pe/ministerio/index.asp
under 
the 
title 
“marco_desarrollo.pdf”) 
outlining implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for 
indigenous peoples under the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to 
time with the Bank’s prior approval; 
(l) 
“Loan Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 of this Agreement; 
(m)  
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
(n) 
“MEM” means Ministerio de Energia y Minas, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Energy and Mines; 
(o) 
“OSINERG” means Organismo Supervisor de la Inversión en Energía,
the Borrower’s supervisory body for energy investment, as established and operating 
under Law No. 26734; dated December 31, 1996 and Supreme Decree No. 054-2001-
PCM, dated May 9, 2001; 
(p) 
“Participating Bank” means a financial institution to be selected to make: 
(i) payments for Rural Electrification Sub-Projects under Part A of the Project, and (ii) 
loans for Small Hydro Sub-Projects under Part D of the Project; as contracted in 
accordance with Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and Section III of Schedule 
3 to the Grant Agreement under an Administrative Financial Agreement, in accordance 
with paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and to paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to the 
Grant Agreement; 
- 4 -
(q) 
“PEU” means the Project Executing Unit (Unidad Ejecutora del 
Proyecto), the Borrower’s unit within MEM as established and operating under MEM 
Ministerial Resolutions Nos. 208-2005-MEM/DM, dated May 30, 2005; 527-2005-
MEM/DM, dated December 30, 2005; and 054-2006-MEM/DM, dated January 24, 2006 
and in charge of the day-to-day management and implementation of the Project; 
(r)  
“Project Directory Committee” (Comité Directivo del Proyecto) means 
the highest oversight executive and advisory body for the Project headed by the 
Borrower’s Vice-Minister of Energy and comprising representatives from MEF and 
OSINERG, as established and operating under a supreme decree to be adopted by the 
Borrower; 
(s) 
“Procurement Plan” means the PEU’s procurement plan dated October 
28, 2005 detailing procurement activities for the entire period of the Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
(t) 
“Project Operational Manual” means a manual satisfactory to the Bank to 
be approved by the Borrower’s Vice-Ministry of Energy through a vice-ministerial 
resolution, outlining policies, financial management, procurement and disbursement 
procedures as well as implementation and monitoring procedures for the Project, as such 
manual may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Project Operational Manual, including the Indigenous 
Peoples’ Framework, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Framework; 
(u) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(v) 
“Resettlement Framework” means the MEM’s framework dated January 
3, 
2006 
(published 
and 
available 
to 
the 
public 
on 
the 
website 
www.minem.gob.pe/ministerio/index.asp under the title “marco_reasentamiento.pdf”), 
outlining implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures in 
relation to any involuntary resettlement under the Project, as said framework may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval; 
(w) 
“Rural Electrification Designated Account” means the part of the Loan 
Special Account that is referred to as a sub-account in Part C.1 (a) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
- 5 -
(x) 
“Rural Electrification Provider” means a private or public company 
qualified in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual and in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in order to 
provide electricity services in rural areas under Part A of the Project; 
(y) 
“Rural Electrification Sub-Project” means a sub-project carried out or 
proposed to be carried out under Part A of the Project by a Rural Electrification Provider 
pursuant to a Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement and in accordance with the 
criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual and in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement” means an agreement 
executed between MEM and a Rural Electrification Provider containing the terms and 
conditions for the financing of electricity provision under Part A of the Project in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual 
and in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(aa) 
“Rural Electrification Sub-Project Subsidy” means a subsidy or a 
contribution granted or proposed to be granted to cover part of the capital cost of a Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project; 
(bb) 
“Small Hydro Financing Facility” means a fund to finance on a 
temporary basis Small Hydro Sub-Projects under Part D of the Project and to be managed 
by the Fund Manager in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and paragraph 7 
of Schedule 4 to the Grant Agreement; 
(cc) 
“Small Hydro Provider” means a private company qualified in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual 
and in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to the Grant Agreement in order to build and operate 
small hydro facilities and provide hydro-electricity under Part D of the Project; 
(dd) 
“Small Hydro Sub-Project” means a sub-project carried out or proposed 
to be carried out under Part D of the Project by a Small Hydro Provider pursuant to a 
Small Hydro Sub-Project Agreement and in accordance with the criteria and procedures 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual and in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to the Grant 
Agreement; 
(ee) 
“Small Hydro Sub-Project Agreement” means an agreement executed 
among MEM, the Participating Bank and a Small Hydro Provider containing the terms 
and conditions for the financing of electricity provision under Part D of the Project in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual 
and in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to the Grant Agreement; and 
- 6 -
(ff) 
“SNIP” means Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública, the Borrower’s 
national system of public investment created and operating under the Borrower’s Law 
No. 27293, dated June 28, 2000 and establishing principles, processes, methodologies 
and technical guidelines for every phase of public investment in the Borrower’s territory. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty million 
Dollars ($50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods, services and consultant services (including those financed through 
Rural Electrification Sub-Projects) required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter, subject in 
either case to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank 
from time to time. 
- 7 -
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to Paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
- 8 -
Section 2.10. 
The Borrower’s Minister at the time responsible for Finance or 
the Borrower’s Director General at the time responsible for public indebtedness, or any 
person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through PEU with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, social, financial, public 
utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
PEU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, services and consultants’ services required for the Project, including those 
financed through Rural Electrification Sub-Projects, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through PEU, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MEM, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
 afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
- 9 -
Section 3.04. 
The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank:  
(i) through PEU, no later than three months after the Effective Date, the contract 
appointing for a period of up to two years the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, under terms of reference and with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) no later than three months after the Effective Date, a 
supreme decree in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, for the creation of the 
Project Directory Committee; (iii) through PEU, not later than three months after the 
Effective Date, evidence that an adequate financial management system for the Project, 
satisfactory to the Bank has been established; and (iv) through PEU, no later than six 
months after the Effective Date, the contract appointing for a period of up to two years 
the procurement auditors referred to in paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank 
and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through PEU, shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through PEU, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Loan was made, audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank):  (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
- 10 -
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower, through PEU, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
PEU, shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
- 11 -
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the restructuring, dissolution or disestablishment of PEU or for the 
suspension of its operations, so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Bank, the Project and the ability of the Borrower through PEU to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant Agreement shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Grant Agreement; 
and 
(ii)  
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:  (A) such suspension, 
cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under the Grant Agreement; and (B)  adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)  Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur. 
(b)  The event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of such Section. 
 
- 12 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Borrower, through its Vice-Ministry of Energy, has 
adopted the Project Operational Manual, including all its annexes, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. 
The date October 17, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower’s Minister at the time responsible for Finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Jr. Junín 319 
 
Lima, Peru 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
(511) 426-8500 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Eduardo Ferrero Costa 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marcelo Giugale  
Authorized Representative  
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods 
100,000 
85% 
 
(2) 
Works 
 
20,000 
85% 
 
(3) 
Consultant services, training 
 
and audits 
4,380,000 
85% 
 
(4) 
Rural Electrification  
 
100% of  
 
Sub-Projects under Part A  
 
amounts 
 
of the Project 
43,375,000 
disbursed by the 
 
Participating  
 
Bank for Rural 
 
Electrification  
 
Sub-Project  
 
goods, works  
 
and services 
 
(5) 
Operating costs 
1,000,000 
85% 
 
(6) 
Front End Fee  
125,000 
Amount due 
 
under Section 
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
Premium for Interest  
0 
Amount due  
 
Rate Caps and Collars 
 
under 
Section 
2.09 (c) of this 
Agreement 
- 15 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(8) 
Unallocated 
1,000,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 
50,000,000 
 
=========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
 the term “training” means the reasonable cost of:  (i) training materials 
and rental of training facilities and equipment; (ii) tuition fees, travel and per-diem of 
trainers and trainee; and (iii) any other expenses related to training to be carried out under 
the Project; and 
(b) 
“operating costs” means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred in 
connection with Project-related activities, including office supplies, operation and 
maintenance of office equipment financed with the proceeds of the Loan, insurance, 
vehicle and equipment operation, bank charges on the Loan Special Account and other 
charges on financial transactions, transport, travel, per diem, accommodation, 
communication costs, rental expenses, facilities, utilities, official advertisements, 
maintenance of offices, organization of events, reproduction and printing services, and 
non-durable goods, all needed for the supervision of the Project, but excluding salaries of 
the Borrower’s civil service at the national and at the sub-national level. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3) and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Part A 
of this Schedule, on account of payments made for expenditures during the twelve months 
immediately before that date but in any case after December 31, 2005; and (b) expenditures 
under Category (4) of said table unless the Borrower through MEM, has furnished to the 
Bank: (i) the duly executed Administrative Financial Agreement; and (ii) the duly 
executed contracts for the PEU key staff members referred to in paragraph 1(c) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; all, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
- 16 -
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under:  (a) contracts for goods and 
works; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants not covered by a Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project or a Small Hydro Sub-Project and costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; and (d) operating costs, Rural Electrification Sub-Project goods, 
works and services, training and audits; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower, through PEU, may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to 
be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the Loan Account, the Borrower, through PEU, shall submit to the Bank only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request.  
B. 
Loan Special Account
1. 
Upon receipt of a notification from the Bank allowing the establishment of the 
Loan Special Account and to facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
through PEU may open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Loan Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Loan Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower, through PEU, is not making Report-based 
Disbursements, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A 
to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower, through PEU, is making Report-based Disbursements, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 
1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Loan Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower, through PEU, out of the Loan 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, through PEU, at such time as the Bank shall 
- 17 -
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Loan Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower, through PEU, 
directly from the Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower, through PEU, shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of:  (A) the records and accounts for the Loan Special Account; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as 
the case may be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Loan Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its 
sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Loan Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Loan 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower, through PEU, 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank 
may request, or deposit into the Loan Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Loan Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
- 18 -
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Loan Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower, through PEU, 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Loan Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
C. 
Rural Electrification Designated Account
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through PEU, shall withdraw from the Loan Special 
Account and deposit into a sub-account of the Loan Special Account the funds necessary 
to assist the Participating Bank to pay for goods, works and services needed for Rural 
Electrification Sub-Projects under Part A of the Project.  Such withdrawals or deposits 
shall be in amounts sufficient to assist the Participating Bank to pay for such goods, 
works and services for Rural Electrification Sub-Projects for a period of up to nine 
months. 
 
(b) 
Payments out of the Rural Electrification Designated Account shall only 
be made for eligible expenditures under Category (4) as set forth in the table in paragraph 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Withdrawals from the Rural Electrification Designated Account may be 
justified by the Borrower, through PEU, under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify to the Borrower. 
 
(d) 
In the event the Bank after consultation with the Borrower, determines 
that any outstanding amount in the Rural Electrification Designated Account is not 
further required to cover payments for eligible expenditures under Category (4), the 
Borrower, through PEU, shall cause the Participating Bank, upon notice from the Bank to 
promptly refund such outstanding amount to the Rural Electrification Designated 
Account. 
- 19 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Loan Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Loan Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Loan Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower, through 
PEU, shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Loan Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Loan Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower, through PEU, shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Loan Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Loan Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Loan Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Loan Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Loan Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Loan Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
- 20 -
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Loan Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
- 21 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Loan Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Loan Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Loan Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Loan Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount 
so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the nine-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to alleviate poverty in the Borrower’s territory by 
increasing access to efficient and sustainable electricity services in rural areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Rural Electrification Sub-Projects
Increase electricity connections outside existing concession areas and provide isolated 
communities with electricity services through mini grids or through individual household 
systems (Rural Electrification Sub-Projects), including conventional and renewable 
systems, installed as a result of said sub-projects (other than those covered by Part D of 
the Project) selected on a competitive basis and carried out by public and private 
electricity service providers (Rural Electrification Providers). 
Part B: Technical Assistance for Rural Electrification
Provide technical assistance in support of rural electrification in order to: 
1. 
develop the institutional framework and regulations for rural provision of 
electricity service on- and off- grid; 
2. 
build the capacity of private and public electricity service providers as well as 
national and sub-national entities for demand-driven and decentralized identification, 
planning and development of Rural Electrification Sub-Projects; 
3. 
promote private investment in Rural Electrification Sub-Projects in order to 
stimulate proposals from the private sector by, inter alia: (i) identifying potential private 
investors; (ii) increasing public awareness of the existence of subsidies for rural 
electrification; and (iii) building capacity and training for the preparation of proposals; 
and 
4. 
promote renewable energy for rural electrification and supply to the rural grid 
especially using small hydropower by, inter alia, supporting:  (i) the development of 
appropriate policies and incentives; (ii) the building of MEM’s capacity for renewable 
- 23 -
energy promotion and management; (iii) the cost-shared preparation of proposals and 
feasibility studies for renewable energy; and (iv) the carrying-out of technical studies 
such as resource assessments. 
Part C: Pilot Program for Productive Uses of Electricity
Carry out a promotional and marketing campaign to encourage productive uses of 
electricity and develop business assistance in rural areas to promote economic activities 
utilizing electrical equipment. 
Part D: Small Hydro Financing Facility
Provide electricity services through the construction and initial operation by the private 
sector of small hydroelectric generation plants ) of less than 10 megawatts (Small Hydro 
Sub-Projects), said construction and initial operation to be financed in part by the Small 
Hydro Financing Facility to be managed by a selected Fund Manager. 
Part E: Project Management
Support PEU in its day-to-day management of the Project, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and audits and the financing of operating costs. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2011. 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Payment Date
Installment Share Expressed as a %
April 15, 2016 
10% 
October 15, 2016 
30% 
April 15, 2017 
60% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 25 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either:  (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement method or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower by domestic suppliers. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. (a) Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 
but more than $250,000 equivalent per contract; and (b) goods and non-consultant 
services (including training-related expenses) estimated to cost less than $250,000 but 
more than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of National Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Shopping. (a) Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent per contract or less; 
and (b) goods and non-consultant services (including training-related expenses) estimated 
- 27 -
to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or less, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Shopping.  
3. 
Procurement for Rural Electrification Sub-Projects. Works, goods and services 
needed under Part A of the Project for Rural Electrification Sub-Projects, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.12 of 
the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection in accordance with Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Least Cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least Cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection.
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 
equivalent per contract and in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
- 28 -
5. 
Selection under a Fixed Budget. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines rendered by 
consulting firms may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
7. 
Commercial Practices.
Services for assignments under Part B 3 (iii) of the 
Project may be procured under contracts awarded to consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.14 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A. 
Prior Review.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Borrower, the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to:  (a) each contract awarded with the use of 
International Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for goods and services (other than 
consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each 
contract for works estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more per contract awarded 
under National Competitive Bidding; (c) the first two contracts for goods and works 
awarded under National Competitive Bidding procedures; and (d) the first two contracts 
for goods and works awarded under Shopping. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more. 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of Single Source 
Selection:  (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
- 29 -
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individuals
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual to be procured on the basis of Single 
Source Selection:  (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
B. 
Post Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Section V.
Special Provisions
A. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
procurement of goods, works and non-consultant services under Section II of this 
Schedule: 
1. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents. 
2. 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the 
procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
- 30 -
3. 
The Borrower, through MEM and PEU, shall utilize standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bids or any documentation 
related to such bids with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or 
any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participate in the bidding process. 
B. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants referred to in Section III of this Schedule: 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
2. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participate in the 
selection process. 
- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. 
General
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
through MEM and PEU, carry out the Project or cause the Project to be 
carried out in accordance with the Project Operational Manual, including the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, the Indigenous Peoples’ Framework, 
the Resettlement Framework and the Annual Operation Plans, and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of these documents without 
the Bank’s prior written approval.  In case of any conflict between the terms of said 
documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail; 
(b) 
through MEM and PEU, maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators 
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof;  
(c)  
through MEM, maintain, until the completion of the execution of the 
Project, PEU with competent staff in adequate numbers with qualification and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following key staff members: the Project manager, 
the manager of the administrative unit, the manager of the technical unit, the social and 
resettlement specialist, the procurement specialist and the financial management 
specialist; 
(d)  
maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, the Project 
Directory Committee; said Project Directory Committee shall convene at least each four 
months and shall submit minutes of said meetings to the Bank; 
(e) 
cause MEM through PEU to enter into and implement until the 
completion of the execution of the Project, the Administrative Financial Agreement, in 
terms and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend or waive any substantive provision of said Agreement without the 
Bank’s prior written approval. Said Agreement will not be amended or waived if, in the 
opinion of the Bank, such amendments or waivers may materially and adversely affect 
the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objective thereof.  In case of any 
conflict between the terms of said Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of 
this Agreement shall prevail. 
- 32 -
2. 
Semi-annual Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through MEM and PEU and within the framework of SNIP, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, starting on the first such date 
after the Effective Date, a semi-annual progress report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) of this 
Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the period following such date;  
(b) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 and August 31 of each year, 
starting on the month following the presentation of the first semi-annual progress report, 
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter;  
 
(c) 
by January 31, 2009, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, 
carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the implementation of operations 
under the Project (Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Bank.  
3. 
Annual Procurement Audits
The Borrower, through MEM and PEU, shall: 
(a) 
have all the procurement records and documentation for each fiscal year 
of the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate procurement auditing principles, by 
procurement auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
- 33 -
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement 
records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request. 
4. 
Procurement Plan and Annual Operation Plan 
The Borrower, through MEM and PEU, shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30 and November 30 of each year, 
starting on June 30, 2006, the updated Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
detailing all procurement activities under the Project for the following year; 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by July 31 and December 31 of each year, starting 
on July 31, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the plan referred to in 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the plan based on its recommendations and the Bank’s views 
on the matter; 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about November 30 of each year, starting on 
November 30, 2006, the updated Annual Operation Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
detailing all activities to be financed under the Project for the following year; and 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by December 31 of each year, starting on 
December 31, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the plan referred to in 
subparagraph (c) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the plan based on its recommendations and the Bank’s views 
on the matter. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Procurement Plan and/or the Annual 
Operation Plan and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
5. 
Rural Electrification Sub-Projects
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
the Borrower, through MEM and PEU, shall monitor the activities financed through 
Rural Electrification Sub-Projects under Part A of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of this paragraph and the Project Operational Manual that include, inter alia:
(i) 
the administrative rules and procedures for planning, 
preparing, proposing, selecting, contracting, financing, 
- 34 -
implementing, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the 
Rural Electrification Sub-Projects; 
(ii) 
the eligibility and qualifying rules for Rural Electrification 
Providers;  
(iii) 
a model form of a Rural Electrification Sub-Project 
Agreement; and 
(iv) 
the Indigenous Peoples’ Framework, the Environmental and 
Social Management Framework and the Resettlement 
Framework. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through PEU, shall, prior to the submission of a Loan 
withdrawal application for the respective activity to be financed through a Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project for each qualified Rural Electrification Provider, furnish to the 
Bank a report confirming that the respective Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement 
has been approved and executed, indicating the name of the qualified Rural 
Electrification Provider and the value of said Rural Electrification Sub-Project 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The Rural Electrification Sub-Project Subsidy shall be requested by a 
Rural Electrification Provider in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and 
shall be used solely for the purposes of the activities under Part A of the Project. 
(d) 
The activities to be financed by a Rural Electrification Sub-Project shall 
be carried out pursuant to a Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement, to be concluded 
between the Borrower (through MEM) and the Rural Electrification Provider under terms 
and conditions described in more detail in the Project Operational Manual and which 
shall include the following: 
(i) 
a copy of the approved activity with its budget, its execution 
timetable, its disbursement timetable and its performance 
indicators; 
(ii) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis; 
(iii) 
the obligation of the Rural Electrification Provider to:  (A) carry 
out the activities with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, 
cultural, social, environmental standards and in accordance with 
- 35 -
the provisions of the Project Operational Manual for a duration 
of time to be defined in the Project Operational Manual; (B) 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with simple 
and sound accounting practices defined in the Project 
Operational Manual, the operations, the resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Rural Electrification Sub-Project; 
(C) maintain adequate reporting in accordance with the standards 
specified in the Project Operational Manual; and (D) make a 
minimum contribution in cash equivalent to at least 10% of the 
total investment costs as defined in the Project Operation 
Manual; 
(iv) 
the requirement that:  (A) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Rural Electrification Sub-
Projects shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (B) such goods, 
works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the activities financed by the Rural Electrification Sub-
Project; 
(v) 
the right of the PEU to inspect, by itself or jointly with MEM 
and the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods, works, 
sites and constructions included in the activities financed by the 
Rural Electrification Sub-Projects, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents; 
(vi) 
the right of the PEU to obtain all information as PEU or the 
Bank shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operations and financial conditions of the activities financed by 
the Rural Electrification Sub-Projects; and 
(vii) 
(A) the right of the PEU to suspend and terminate the right of the 
Rural Electrification Provider to use the proceeds of the Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project; and (B) the obligation of the Rural 
Electrification Provider to refund any used portion of the Rural 
Electrification Sub-Project to PEU, all upon failure by the Rural 
Electrification Provider to perform any of its obligations under 
the Rural Electrification Sub-Project Agreement. 
 
- 36 -
6. 
Administrative Financial Agreement
The activities to be financed by a Rural Electrification Sub-Project shall be paid 
pursuant to an Administrative Financial Agreement, to be concluded between the 
Participating Bank and PEU under terms and conditions described in more detail in the 
Project Operational Manual and which shall include the following: 
(i) 
provisions stating that payments will be made for each relevant 
Rural Electrification Sub-Project on the basis of instructions 
received from the PEU; 
(ii) 
the obligation of the Participating Bank to:  (A) carry out the 
activities with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound administrative and financial standards and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational 
Manual; (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
with simple and sound accounting practices defined in the 
Project Operational Manual, the operations, the resources and 
expenditures in respect of the payments made for Rural 
Electrification Sub-Projects; and (C) maintain adequate reporting 
in accordance with the standards specified in the Project 
Operational Manual; 
(iii) 
the right of the PEU to inspect, by itself or jointly with MEM 
and the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, any relevant records 
and documents held by the Participating Bank; 
(iv) 
the right of the PEU to obtain all information as PEU or the 
Bank shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operations and financial conditions of the payments made for 
Rural Electrification Sub-Projects through the Participating 
Bank; and 
(viii) 
(A) the right of the PEU to suspend and terminate the right of the 
Participating Bank to use the proceeds of the Administrative 
Financial Agreement; and (B) the obligation of the Participating 
Bank to refund any used portion under the Administrative 
Financial Agreement to PEU, all upon failure by the 
Participating Bank to perform any of its obligations under the 
Administrative Financial Agreement. 
 
- 37 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank: 
Target Dates 
Performance Indicators 
Mid Term 
End of Project 
1.  Number of new connections outside 
concession areas. 
 
48,500 
 
160,000 
2.  Increase in MWh/year of electricity 
consumed for productive uses in targeted 
rural areas. 
 
1,710 
 
10,800 
3.  Investments by Rural Electrification 
Providers in Rural Electrification Sub-
Projects (Million US$). 
 
8.0 
 
23.1 
4.  Issuance of norms, regulations and 
guidelines for rural electrification using 
conventional energy. 
 
Completed 
 
5.  Number of enterprises adopting 
electricity using equipment in targeted rural 
areas. 
 
1,420 
 
9,000 
