CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4831-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Liaoning Medium Cities Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  October 18, 2006                                         
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4831-CHA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 18, 2006, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General 
Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
eighteen million Dollars ($218,000,000) (“Loan”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance, subject to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent 
(1%) of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a 
rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, 
2
subject to any waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined 
by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.06. The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To 
this end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry 
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have failed to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Project Implementing 
Entity will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.  
3
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
5.01. There are no Additional Conditions of Effectiveness. 
 
5.02. The additional Legal Matter for the purpose of Section 9.02 of the General 
Condition is that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Project Implementing Entity, and is legally binding upon 
the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
By: /s/ Yang Shaolin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Project Cities in 
enhancing: (i) the performance and quality of their existing urban transport 
infrastructure in terms of mobility, access, and safety; (ii) the efficiency and 
effectiveness of their urban public transport and road maintenance services; and 
(iii) the responsiveness of their urban transport systems to the needs of population 
without access to private motorized vehicles. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Benxi
1. 
Road Infrastructure: Construction of about four (4) kilometers (km) of 
new secondary roads, reconstruction of about twenty four (24) km of trunk, 
secondary and branch roads, and construction of a bridge of about one (1) km in 
length. 
 
2. 
Road Maintenance: Rehabilitation of selected roads and provision of 
equipment for regular and emergency maintenance.  
 
3. 
Traffic Safety and Traffic Management: Provision of traffic management 
equipment, redesign of traffic intersections and lane separation between 
motorized vehicles (MVs) and non-motorized vehicles (NMVs) on about eleven 
(11) km of arterial roads, and provision of technical assistance for the annual 
supervision of safety performance on selected intersections and arterials roads.  
 
4. 
Public Transport: Construction of about ten (10) km of bus priority, and 
installation of bus interchanges, bus bays, bus stop signs and information plates, 
and bus shelters. 
 
Part B: Fushun
1. 
Road Infrastructure: Reconstruction of about twelve (12) km of trunk 
roads, including construction of about six (6) rail crossings and about three (3) 
bridges.   
 
6
2. 
Road Maintenance: Rehabilitation of selected roads, provision of 
equipment for regular and emergency maintenance, and installation of street 
lights.  
 
3. 
Traffic Safety and Traffic Management: Provision of traffic management 
equipment, redesign of selected intersections and lane separation between MV 
and NMVs on about twenty four (24) km of Xincheng road and other arterial 
roads, provision of technical assistance for annual supervision of safety 
performance of selected intersections and arterials roads.  
 
4. 
Public Transport: Construction of bus bays. 
 
Part C: Liaoyang
1. 
Road Infrastructure: Construction of about eleven (11) km of new roads, 
and upgrading of about forty three (43) km of roads including about two (2) rail 
crossings and about thirty (30) km of branch roads and alleys.     
 
2. 
Road Maintenance: Rehabilitation of selected roads, installation of street 
lights, improvement of drainage on about fifteen (15) km of roads, and provision 
of maintenance equipment.   
 
3. 
Traffic Safety and Traffic Management: Provision of traffic management 
equipment, and provision of technical assistance for annual supervision of safety 
performance of selected intersections and arterial roads.  
 
4. 
Public Transport: Construction of about sixteen (16) km bus priority, bus 
turnarounds, bus parking facilities, bus stop shelters, and signage.  
 
Part D: Jinzhou
1. 
Road Infrastructure: Construction of about six (6) km of new roads and 
upgrading of about thirty nine (39) km of roads including about two (2) rail 
crossings.     
 
2. 
Road Maintenance: Rehabilitation of selected roads including drainage 
improvements, installation and repair of street lights, and provision of road and 
facility maintenance equipment.   
 
3. 
Traffic Safety and Traffic Management: Provision of traffic management 
equipment, construction of about twenty four (24) km of lane separations between 
7
MVs and NMVs, and provision of technical assistance for annual monitoring of 
safety performance of selected intersections and arterial roads.  
 
4. 
Public Transport: Construction of about nine (9) km bus priority, and 
construction of interchange terminals and bus turnarounds.  
 
Part E: Panjin 
1. 
Road Infrastructure:
Reconstruction of about four (4) roads and 
construction of about eight (8) new roads, with a total length of about twenty six 
(26) km (including about two (2) bridges and bridge ramps).      
 
2. 
Road Maintenance: Rehabilitation of selected roads including drainage, 
and installation of street lights, as well as provision of road and facility 
maintenance equipment.   
 
3. 
Traffic Safety and Traffic Management: Provision of traffic management 
equipment, channelization at selected road intersections, signs and markings and 
lane separations between MVs and NMVs on selected roads, and provision of 
technical assistance for annual supervision of safety performance at selected 
intersections and arterial roads.  
 
4. 
Public Transport: Construction of about eighteen (18) km bus priority, bus 
bays, bus turnarounds, interchange terminals, bus shelters, bus stop signs, 
installation of a dispatch center and control system, an integrated circuit (IC) card 
system, and provision of required workshop equipment for the City Center 
facility.  
 
Part F: Dengta
1. 
Road Infrastructure: Construction of about three (3) new roads covering 
about three (3) km, and upgrading of about twelve (12) km of roads including 
about six (6) alleys, and an existing rail underpass.      
 
2. 
Road Maintenance: Rehabilitation of selected roads, and provision of road 
and facility maintenance equipment.   
 
3. 
Traffic Safety and Traffic Management: Provision of traffic management 
equipment.  
 
8
4. 
Public Transport: Construction of about thirty eight (38) bus stops and 
about two (2) dispatch offices. 
 
Part G:Institutional Development
Carrying out a program of institutional capacity building, including 
provision of training and/or technical assistance with respect to: (a) the use of the 
transport planning models developed under the Project; (b) preventative 
maintenance planning good practices; (c) bus priority and road network planning; 
(d) traffic control, enforcement, and parking; (e) implementation of the NRSL to 
improve traffic safety management, monitoring and control systems; (f) public 
transport 
and 
road 
maintenance 
reforms; 
and 
the 
development 
and 
implementation of a traffic safety audit program; (g) public participation in the 
transport planning process during implementation of the Project; and (h) 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the progress of Project implementation.   
 
9
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangements.
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under the following principal terms: 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 
of this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate equal to the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators set forth in a supplemental letter of same date of this Agreement.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than one and a half months after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
10
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall ensure that report on the execution of the Project and related plan required 
pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six month 
after the Closing Date by the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to 
the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one and a half months after 
the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its 
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) 
of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement.
A. 
General. 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of 
the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
11
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
 
1. 
International and National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise 
provided in paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International and National Competitive Bidding 
procedures. In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the 
People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications 
required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their 
responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be 
given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for 
such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating 
the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the 
bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
12
 
(v) 
The date and time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(viii) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) 
to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to 
offer the lowest evaluated cost.  The winning bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for 
work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to 
modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide 
that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its 
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International and National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
Shopping 
13
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and 
Cost-based Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Individual Consultants  
(b) Selection based on the Consultants’ 
Qualifications 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Quality-based Selection 
(e) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f) Least-Cost Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (b) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (c) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; and each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm to be procured using Single-source Selection procedure, 
regardless of its contract value; (d) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; 
and (e) the first contract to be procured using any  procurement method 
mentioned in this Schedule, regardless of its contract value.   In addition, terms of 
reference for consulting contracts, regardless of their contract value or 
procurement methods, will be subject to the Bank’s prior review.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
14
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
For the purposes of financing Eligible Expenditures as they are incurred 
under the Project, the Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a segregated, 
designated account in accordance with Section 2.04 of the General Conditions, 
into which only proceeds of the Loan may be deposited.  
2. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Borrower, to (a) finance the Front-end Fee in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the General Conditions; and (b) finance other Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category, inclusive of taxes subject 
to the provisions of Section 2.06 of the General Conditions. 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated  
(Expressed in Dollars)
% of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Civil works 
 
160,395,000     
 
51% 
(2) Goods 
 
33,280,000 
 
100% 
 
(3) Consultants’ services 
 
training, and workshops 
 
4,850,000 
 
100% 
 
(4) Unallocated 
 
18,930,000 
 
(5) Front-end Fee  
 
545,000 
 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
TOTAL 
 
218,000,000
15
B.
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal 
shall be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 10, 2006, for 
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (3).   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
16
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
 
(Expressed in Dollars)∗
November 15, 2011 
4,880,000 
May 15, 2012 
5,005,000 
 
November 15, 2012       
5,135,000             
 
May 15, 2013         
5,270,000           
 
November 15, 2013            
5,410,000         
 
May 15, 2014           
5,550,000          
 
November 15, 2014   
5,695,000                  
 
May 15, 2015                   
5,845,000  
 
November 15, 2015           
5,995,000          
 
May 15, 2016                   
6,150,000  
 
November 15, 2016            
6,315,000       
 
May 15, 2017              
6,480,000      
 
November 15, 2017       
6,645,000             
 
May 15, 2018                   
6,820,000 
 
November 15, 2018               
7,000,000     
 
May 15, 2019                  
7,180,000 
 
November 15, 2019  
7,370,000 
 
May 15, 2020                 
7,560,000   
 
November 15, 2020   
7,760,000                 
 
May 15, 2021 
7,960,000  
 
November 15, 2021                
8,170,000    
 
May 15, 2022                   
8,380,000 
 
November 15, 2022             
8,600,000     
 
May 15, 2023   
8,825,000 
 
November 15, 2023              
9,055,000      
 
May 15, 2024                   
9,290,000 
 
November 15, 2024  
9,535,000 
 
May 15, 2025                   
9,785,000 
 
November 15, 2025               
10,040,000                                      
 
May 15, 2026             
10,295,000 
APPENDIX 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
17
 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 
2004. 
 
(c) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) 
relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) 
loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons 
must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to 
legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts 
on the livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of 
such Displaced Persons. 
 
(d) 
“Environmental Management Plans” means collectively, the Environmental 
Management Plan adopted by Jinzhou dated April 2006; the Environmental 
Management Plan adopted by Panjin dated April 2006; the Environmental 
Management Plan adopted by Liaoyang dated April 2006; the 
Environmental Management Plan adopted by Fushun dated April  2006; the 
Environmental Management Plan adopted by Benxi dated April 2006; and 
the Environmental Management Plan adopted by Dengta dated April 2006; 
which said plans set out the environmental protection measures in respect 
of the Project Cities’ Respective Parts of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation 
of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; and “Environmental Management Plan” means, 
individually, either of the Environmental Management Plans.  
 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means: (i) in respect of the Borrower, each period from 
January 1 through December 31 of the calendar year; and (ii) in respect of 
Liaoning Province, each period from January 1 through December 31 of the 
calendar year. 
 
(f) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
18
 
(g) 
“Liaoning” means the Borrower’s Liaoning Province, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
(h) 
“Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office” and 
“LUCRPO” mean the office referred to in paragraph 1(c) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.    
 
(i) 
“Local Leading Group” means the group referred to in paragraph 1(d) of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
(j) 
“Local Project Management Office” means the office referred to in 
paragraph 1(e) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
(k) 
“NRSL” means the Borrower’s National Road Safety Law, as of the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
(l) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the 
Project, dated May 11, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(n) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Liaoning 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
(o) 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Liaoning 
and any successor thereto. 
 
(p) 
“Project Cities” means the Borrower’s municipalities of Panjin, Jinzhou, 
Fushun, Benxi, Liaoyang, and county city of Dengta, each located in 
Liaoning Province, and any successors thereto; and a “Project City” means, 
individually, either of said Project Cities. 
 
(q) 
“Project Coordinating Group” means the group referred to in paragraph 1(a) 
of Section I of Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
19
 
(r) 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the Resettlement Action 
Plan adopted  by Jinzhou dated February 2006; the Resettlement Action 
Plan adopted by Panjin dated October 2005; the Resettlement Action Plan 
adopted by Liaoyang dated October 2005; the Resettlement Action Plan 
adopted by Fushun dated December 2005; the Resettlement Action Plan 
adopted by Benxi dated December 2005; the Resettlement Action Plan 
adopted by Dengta dated February 2006; which said plans set out the 
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other 
assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons on account of the Project Cities’ Respective Parts of the Project, as 
well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with 
said plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement Action Plan” means, 
individually, either of the Resettlement Action Plans.  
 
(s) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the policy framework dated 
March 2006, adopted by each Project City, which sets out policies and 
procedures for acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons, and guidelines for the preparation of resettlement action plans if 
necessary, as said policy framework may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(t) 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of the Project Cities, the 
parts of the Project to be carried out within their respective territorial 
jurisdiction.   
 
(u) 
“Road Safety Committees” means the committees established by the 
Project Cities to be responsible for ensuring high road safety levels and 
developing appropriate traffic management strategies; and referred to in 
paragraph 8 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and 
“Road Safety Committee” means, individually, either of the “Road Safety 
Committees.”  
 
