CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7289-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Flood Prevention and Drainage Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
and 
 
CITY OF BUENOS AIRES 
 
Dated May 18, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7289-AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 2006, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CITY OF BUENOS 
AIRES (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated March 
11, 2005, describing a program designed to reduce urban flood vulnerability in the 
Borrower’s territorial jurisdiction and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of such program;  
(B) 
the Argentine Republic (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive”. 
- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“City Department” means Defensa Civil (Civil Defense), Dirección 
General de Hidráulica (Directorate General of Hydraulics), Dirección General de 
Higiene Urbana (Directorate General of Urban Hygene), Dirección General de Espacios 
Verdes (Directorate General of Green Spaces), Dirección General de Transporte y 
Tránsito (Directorate General of Transport and Transit) and Ministerio de Medio 
Ambiente (the Ministry of Environment), all of which form part of the Borrower’s public 
administration; 
(b) 
“Concession Contract” means the contract entered into between the 
Borrower and the firms Francisco E. Hijos, S.A., Parenti Mai, S.A. and Riva, S.A (also 
referred to herein as the Concessionaire) dated July 26, 1988 for the use and exploitation 
of the facility named “Solarium Ingeniero Agrónomo Benito Carrasco”, the bidding 
documents (Pliego de Bases y Condiciones de la Licitación Pública) approved by the 
Borrower’s resolution (Ordenanza) No. 41742 and the Concessionaire’s bid, as said text 
has been amended to March 7, 2005; 
(c) 
“DGRBM-SUPCE” means Dirección General de Relaciones con el 
Banco Mundial y  Sub Unidad de Coordinación para la Emergencia, the Borrower’s 
executing unit and sub-coordination unit for flood emergencies, established within MoT 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decrees Nos. 403/2006 and 1960/1999 of April 25, 2006 and 
September 23, 1999, respectively; 
(d) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period;  
 (e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means Plan de Gestión Ambiental,
the Borrower’s plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated February 14, 2005 which describes the 
Borrower’s actions to be undertaken or caused to be undertaken by the same in order to 
mitigate any adverse environmental impact resulting from the carrying out of the works 
under the Project (which shall include, inter alia, the Panel of Experts’ recommendations 
in respect to the environmental aspects of the works to be carried out under Part  B.1 (a) 
of the Project, as approved by the Bank), as said plan may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank;   
 (f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
- 3 -
(g) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Environmental Management Plan and fiscal 
parameters referred to in Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn;  
(i) 
“MoT” means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Ministry of the 
Treasury; 
(j) 
“Non-Consultant Services” means expenditures incurred related to the 
cost of public advertisement in the media and on public sites as part of the activities to be 
carried out under Part A.6 of the Project; 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement, as said manual may be amended form time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank; 
 
 (l) 
“Panel of Experts” means a group of independent specialist hired by the 
Bank to assess and validate the technical design of the two drainage/collection tunnels 
referred to in Part B.1 (a) of the Project; 
 (m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
March 3, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(n) 
“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under 
the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or 
habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; and 
(o) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
- 4 -
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ninety eight 
million Euros (�98,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2010 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be 
payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
- 5 -
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, the first such installment to be payable on the 11th 
(eleventh) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the 18th (eighteenth) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-eighth (1/8) of said Disbursed 
Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said 
Disbursed Amount.  
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after March 15, 2020, the Borrower shall 
also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the 
amortization schedule for each Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing 
Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
- 6 -
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out: (a) Part A of the Project, through MoT,  with the 
participation of the City Departments; and (b) Parts B and C, through MoT, all in 
coordination with the DGRBM-SUPCE, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, public utility, social, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
- 7 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project and/or cause to be carried out the 
same in accordance with: (i) the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual), 
acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: (A) the institutional and 
administrative structure of DGRBM-SUPCE and its functions and responsibilities; (B) 
the terms of reference for the professional and administrative staff of DGRBM-SUPCE; 
(C)  the Panel of Experts’ recommendations in respect to the technical aspects of the 
works to be carried out under Part B.1 (a) of the Project, as approved by the Bank; (D) 
the Project’s chart of accounts, internal controls, and budgeting, accounting and financial 
reporting systems; (E) the FMR formats; (F) the terms of reference for carrying out the 
Project audits under Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; (G) the Project disbursement 
and procurement procedures; (H) the Project’s standard bidding documents (which shall 
include, in respect of the works to be carried out under Parts B.1 (a) and B.2 of the 
Project, a provision whereby the contractor must comply with the pertinent provisions of 
the Environmental Management Plan (set forth in the Implementation Letter) in carrying 
out said works); (I) the terms of reference for the progress reports referred to in Section 
3.07 of this Agreement; (J) the terms of reference for the group of independent advisors 
mentioned in Part B.1 (d) of the Project; and (K) the Project indicators; and (ii) the terms 
of the Environmental Management Plan set forth in the Implementation Letter.  
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 3.01 and 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement, and for purposes of carrying out Part B.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall ensure that the recommendations of the Panel of Experts described in the 
Operational Manual and in the Environmental Management Plan are properly followed 
- 8 -
and implemented on the terms specified in said documents, and for said purpose the 
Borrower shall take and/or cause to be taken (as the case may be) all action necessary or 
appropriate to comply with its obligation mentioned herein.  
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, the DGRBM-SUPCE with an institutional and administrative 
structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
responsibility of the DGRBM-SUPCE to assist the Borrower in the implementation, 
coordination, monitoring and supervision of the Project; and (ii) (A) not later than 
January 15, 2006 provide to the DGRBM-SUPCE adequate office space and technical 
equipment to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank; and (B) thereafter ensure, at all times during Project implementation, that said 
office space and technical equipment is available to the DGRBM-SUPCE to carry out its 
functions and responsibilities mentioned herein.   
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the DGRBM-SUPCE is, at all times 
during Project implementation, headed by a general director (Director General) and 
assisted by two general coordinators and other professional staff (with expertise in 
engineering, public utility, procurement and financial management) and administrative 
staff, all in numbers and with qualifications and experience and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank.  
 
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish 
to the Bank, not later than sixty calendar days after the end of each calendar semester 
during Project implementation (starting with the report due in August 2006), a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the following calendar semester; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank not later than April 30 of each year of Project 
implementation (starting in the year 2007), the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section and the report referred to in Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement, and, 
thereafter, take and/or cause to be taken, as the case may be, all measures required to 
- 9 -
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.08. For purposes of monitoring progress in Project implementation 
(including progress in the implementation of the Procurement Plan), the Borrower shall 
not later than January 15, 2006 establish, and thereafter operate and maintain at all times 
during Project implementation, an information system acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) cause the group of independent advisors 
mentioned in Part B.1 (d) of the Project to meet at least once every calendar semester 
during the carrying out of the works under Part B.1 (a) of the Project (and thereafter, if 
needed in consultation with the Bank), starting in the calendar semester in which the 
Effective Date falls, so as to carry out its responsibilities mentioned in Part B.1 (d) of the 
Project (which responsibilities shall include, inter alia, if needed, the provision of 
assistance to the Borrower in the preparation of an action plan (acceptable to the Bank) to 
address any procurement/construction problems which may arise during the carrying out 
of the works under Part B.1 (a) of the Project); and (b) if applicable, implement and/or 
cause to be implemented the plan mentioned in (a) herein in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that any works under the Project does 
not involve any Resettlement. 
Section 3.11. In the case that during the construction of the works to be carried 
out under Part B.1 (a) of the Project an unforeseen event occurs which will affect the 
persons living and/or private property in the area in which said unforeseen event 
occurred, the Borrower shall: (a) immediately upon the occurrence of each said event, 
and prior to the continuation of said works, prepare and present to the Bank a plan 
acceptable to the Bank (which plan shall contain, inter alia, the actions to be carried out 
and/or cause to be carried out by the Borrower) to address and/or mitigate (as the case 
may be) any social, technical and/or environmental impact resulting from the occurrence 
of each such event; and (b) thereafter implement each said plan in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 3.12. In connection with the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall comply with the provisions stipulated in the Concession Contract. 
- 10 -  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditor, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditor, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
- 11 -  
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty calendar 
days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than sixty calendar days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
such calendar semester. 
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall comply with the fiscal parameters 
acceptable to the Bank which are set forth in the Implementation Letter.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall: (i)  not later than sixty calendar days after the end of 
each calendar semester during Project implementation (starting with the report due in 
August 2006), prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, acceptable to the Bank, 
concerning the Borrower’s compliance with the fiscal parameters mentioned in (a) herein 
(which report shall also include, inter alia, the savings-investment balance account on an 
accrual basis, and the calculation methodology (acceptable to the Bank) used by the 
Borrower in complying with said parameters); and (ii) not later than sixty calendar days 
after the presentation of each of said reports, review with the Bank the pertinent report.  
- 12 -  
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants 
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, technical, public utility, social, engineering and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers; 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, public 
utility, social, engineering and environmental practices; and 
(c) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Borrower; 
(b)  
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
(c) 
the group of independent advisors mentioned in Part B.1 (d) of the 
Project has been selected following the appropriate method of procurement referred to in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date August 16, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 13 -  
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of MoT of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda  
 
Calle Bolívar No. 1 
 
Ciudad de Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
Facsimile: 4343-9816 
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 14 -  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
CITY OF BUENOS AIRES 
 
By/s/ Jorge Telerman 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 15 -  
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Euros)
to be financed 
(1) 
Works 
88,930,000 
68% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,460,000 
68% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
6,380,000 
 95% 
 
and Project audits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4) 
Non-Consultant  
1,080,000 
 95% 
 
Services 
 
(5) 
Operating Costs 
150,000 
 50% 
 
(6)  
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Section 2.09(c) of 
 
Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
___________ 
 
98,000,000
TOTAL 
========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable 
recurrent expenditures based on annual budget previously approved by the Bank that 
would not have been incurred by the Borrower absent the Project for transportation and 
per-diem costs of the DGRBM-SUPCE staff, Project administration costs (including 
office rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment (including the insurance cost 
for said office equipment), and non-durable goods. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
- 16 -  
(a)  
any Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless 
and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and 
(b)  
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding �380,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (3) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
on account of payments made for expenditures within one year before that date but after 
June 17, 2004, if the condition referred to in paragraph 3 (a) above has been met. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent per contract; (b) Non-Consultant Services costing less than 
$300,000 equivalent per contract with the exception of those contracts for Non-
Consultant Services to be procured under Part B.3 of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; (c) works costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for 
services of individual consultants costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract with 
the exception of those contracts for services of individual consultants to be selected on a 
sole source basis; (e) for services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract with the exception of those contracts for services of 
consulting firms to be selected on a sole source basis; and (f) Operating Costs under 
Category (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 17 -  
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to reduce the Borrower’s vulnerability to flooding 
through the improvement of the level of protection of the Borrower’s rain drainage 
system and the implementation of a risk management program. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Non-Structural Measures
1. 
Design and implementation of a risk management program, which program 
includes, inter alia: (a) the design of hazard maps that will identify the areas at risk based 
on a number of factors such as typology, frequency of flooding, land use and magnitude 
of natural events; (b) the design of vulnerability maps that will identify the private and 
public infrastructure at risk, and the appropriate uses of areas at risk; (c) the design of 
land use plans or maps (as the case may be) that will identify the areas at risk and 
appropriate uses of said areas for purposes of developing risk management regulations; 
and (d) the identification and prioritization of risk mitigation measures, and the 
preparation of an action plan to implement said measures, when needed.  
2. 
Installation and operation of a hydro-meteorological warning system.  
3. 
Based on the information generated as a result of the carrying out of the activities 
mentioned in Part A.1 above, preparation of norms and/or bills of laws (as the case may 
be, all acceptable to the Bank) so as to update the Borrower’s existing urban legal and 
regulatory framework. 
 4. 
Identification of alternatives for the transfer, treatment and final disposal of solid 
waste produced in the Borrower’s territorial jurisdiction to improve solid waste 
management and waste recycling. 
5.  
(a)  
Development of the initial phase of a green spaces master plan, which 
phase includes, inter alia, the carrying out of a diagnostic of green spaces located within 
the Borrower’s territorial jurisdiction, the carrying out of topographic surveys of soil and 
trees, the design of guidelines to develop the final phase of said green spaces master plan, 
and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment required therefor; and (b) carrying 
- 18 -  
out of an update of the Borrower’s inventory of public trees so as to develop a public 
trees replenishment master plan. 
6. 
Design and implementation of a hydrological environmental, communications 
and education program, which program would consist of, inter alia, informing the Project 
stakeholders and population in general of the contents of the Project (including the 
design, printing and distribution of materials required therefor). 
7. 
Design and implementation of a program to strengthen the institutional, 
operational and risk management capacity of the City Departments, if needed. 
8. 
Carrying out of periodic water quality and quantity evaluations in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Part B: Development of Key Defense Facilities
1. 
(a) 
Construction of two drainage/collection tunnels of approximately 9900 
and 4700 meters long, respectively (each with an internal diameter of 6.90 meters) in the 
Maldonado basin, which will run parallel to the Maldonado underground channel; (b) 
carrying out of technical studies in respect of complementary work for the construction of 
the tunnels mentioned in (a) herein; (c) carrying out of the construction supervision of the 
tunnels mentioned in (a) herein; and (d) selection and hiring of a group of independent 
advisors under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Bank to address any procurement and/or construction problems which may arise 
during the carrying out of the works referred to in Part B.1 (a) of the Project. 
2.  
Improvement of the existing water drainage system in the Maldonado basin, 
through the expansion of the secondary water drainage network. 
3. 
Carrying out of feasibility studies in all water basins within the Borrower’s 
territorial jurisdiction (other than in the Maldonado basin) for purposes of designing, 
immediately after the completion of said studies, water drainage investments which 
would improve the water drainage system in said basins. 
Part C: Technical Assistance and Auditing
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the DGRBM-SUPCE to perform its functions and 
responsibilities referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement, including the acquisition 
and utilization of the goods required therefor. 
- 19 -  
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to comply with its audit 
obligations under Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010.  
- 20 -  
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), the pertinent provisions of 
the Operational Manual, and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
Without limitation to the provisions in Parts A and B of this Section the 
following additional provisions shall govern the procurement of goods, works, Non-
Consultant Services and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
(a) 
each contract for goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and 
consultants’ services to be procured under the procurement methodologies referred to in 
Parts A and B of Section II and Parts A and B of Section III, of this Schedule shall 
include a provision providing for international arbitration as the appropriate settlement of 
disputes mechanism if the party to whom the contract is proposed to be awarded is 
foreign; 
(b)  
procurement of goods, Non Consultant Services and works shall be 
carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank;   
(c)    
all contracts for works to be procured under the Project shall contain a 
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said contracts shall be 
adjusted through the use of price adjustment formulas, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(d) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the 
procurement of goods, works and Non-Consultant Services;  
(e)    after the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations concerning 
awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other persons not officially 
- 21 -  
concerned with this process until the publication of contract award (except as provided in 
paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines); 
(f) 
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or 
proposals: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a representative in 
Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine suppliers, contractors or 
consultants; 
(g) 
request for proposals shall not require the presentation of a proposal 
security nor of a performance security; 
(h)  
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, 
requests for expressions of interest, the evaluation reports of bids and proposals, and 
contract awards of all goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services,  
as the case may be, shall be published in a web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
(i) 
contract for goods, Non-Consultant Services and works to be procured 
under Part B.1 of Section II of this Schedule shall be awarded on the basis of the 
procurement methodology referred to in Part A of Section II of this Schedule with the 
following exceptions to said procurement methodology:  
(A) 
advertisement notice of bidding opportunities may be 
limited to publication of the same in the national 
newspapers or the Borrower’s official gazette or in a web 
site acceptable to the Bank; 
(B) 
the bid price and the payment requirements may be 
expressed in the currency of the Guarantor;  
(C) 
the time for preparation and submission of bids may be 
reduce to thirty calendar days; and 
(D) 
bids for goods may be invited on the basis of placed of 
delivered duty paid (also known as DDP). 
D. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
- 22 -  
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultant Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.  
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
(a) Goods and Non-Consultant Services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; and (b) works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of modified National 
Competitive Bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank (which procedures are described 
in Part C of Section I of this Schedule, as applicable).  
2. 
Shopping.
Goods and Non-Consultant Services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Shopping. 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Non-Consultant Services which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Consultants’ services under Part 
A.6 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
- 23 -  
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection. Consultants’ services for tasks in circumstances which 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods and Non-Consultant Services estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; 
(b)  each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (c) 
the first contract for public advertisement in the media under Non-Consultant Services 
procured under either National Competitive Bidding or Shopping regardless of its cost; 
(d) each contract for Non-Consultant Services procured on the basis of Direct 
Contracting; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more or selected on a sole source basis. In addition, 
with respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the report on the qualifications and experience 
of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank. All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 24 -  
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,400,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 (ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
- 25 -  
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
- 26 -  
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
