CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7422-JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Regional and Local Development Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  January 18, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated January 18, 2007, between HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF 
JORDAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount of twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000) 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
-2- 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and D of the Project through LDD and 
cause Parts B and C of the Project to be carried out by CVDB in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that 
CVDB’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CVDB to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
4.03. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement 
is June 20, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Management Contract has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
CVDB. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Management Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
CVDB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CVDB in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
-3- 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
 
-4- 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Post Office Box 555, 11118 
Amman,  
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
962-6-464-9341 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By 
 
/s/ Walid Al-Hadid 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
/s/ Daniela Gressani 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in promoting regionally 
balanced local development through municipalities and other ancillary support 
mechanisms.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Strengthening National Level Institutions involved in the Municipal Sector and 
Project Management Support:
1. 
Institutional Strengthening of MOMA
Strengthening the capacity of MOMA leading to improvement of the overall 
delivery and management of municipal services and infrastructure through carrying out 
studies and assessments, provision of technical assistance and necessary equipment for 
inter alia: (a) strengthening oversight and review capacity of municipal budget 
preparation and execution; (b) restructuring the fiscal transfer formula; (c) establishing an 
integrated municipal monitoring and evaluation system and sector database; and (d) 
updating urban planning rules and regulations.  
 
2. 
Strengthening of Cities and Villages Development Bank 
Provision of technical assistance and necessary equipment for restructuring 
CVDB into a viable banking institution to efficiently serve municipalities including: (a) 
enhancement of CVDB’s governance and organizational capacity: (b) development of 
analytical tools and procedures for identification and implementation of municipal 
infrastructures and services, including strengthening CVDB’s credit risk analysis 
techniques and supporting the preparation of its business plan; (c) development of 
standardized training programs and curricula, trainer certification and training; and (d) 
strengthening of the regulatory environment governing CVDB operations, including 
standardization and upgrading of oversight and monitoring systems. 
 
3. 
Project Management
Provision of assistance to LDD, including consultants’ services to enable LDD to 
coordinate implementation. Acquisition of a vehicle to be used for the purposes of Project 
supervision. 
 
Part B: Performance-Based Block Grants for Municipal Infrastructure and Services
1. 
Provision of PBBGs to support PBBG sub-projects for the delivery of basic 
municipal infrastructure and services such as solid waste equipment, water and sanitation 
-6- 
services and road maintenance and rehabilitation, to areas to be selected on the basis of 
agreed eligibility criteria.  
 
2. 
Provision of PBBGs to support PBBG sub-projects to construct, develop and 
rehabilitate revenue-generating municipal assets including, without limitation, 
commercial markets, transport terminals, parking buildings, tourism facilities, and small 
and medium-sized slaughter houses. 
 
3. 
Provision of consultant services to supervise and monitor the implementation and 
quality of PBBG sub-projects. 
 
Part C: Municipal Capacity Building
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to strengthen municipalities in 
the sustainable delivery of municipal services including strengthening municipal 
budgeting, asset management, revenue generation, human resource capacity, investment 
project analysis, urban planning practices and feasibility study preparation. 
Part D: Regional Economic Development Strategy and Investment Planning
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen regional development planning, 
and foster effective linkages and coordination among municipalities through the 
expansion of ongoing initiatives of LDD and the development of institutional 
arrangements for regional and local government coordination. 
 
-7- 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Management Contract 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of CVDB’s respective Parts B and C of the Project, 
the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to CVDB under a 
Management Contract between the Borrower and CVDB, under terms and conditions 
approved by the Bank (“Management Contract”).  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Management Contract in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Management Contract of any of its provisions. 
 
B. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall provide all assistance necessary to CVDB for 
CVDB to: (a) implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual and the Environmental Management Plan; and (b) benefit from Part A.2 of the 
Project. 
 
2. 
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive any provision of the Operational Manual and or Environmental Management Plan 
if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall at all times maintain LDD throughout the duration of the 
Project, with adequate functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank. LDD 
shall be responsible for overall Project coordination including: (a) overseeing the 
implementation of Parts A and D of the Project; (b) the procurement and financial 
management processes under  the Project; (c) maintenance of a Project management 
information system; and (d) preparation of Project reports. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain, throughout Project implementation, a 
steering committee composed of inter alia representatives from MOPIC, MOMA, MOF, 
CVDB and the Water Authority of Jordan. The steering committee shall be responsible 
for: (a) advising on and reviewing investment identification activities; (b) reviewing 
Project progress reports and updates submitted by LDD; (c) effective coordination and 
communication between different agencies, ministries and Project stakeholders; (d) 
ensuring timely resolution of implementation bottlenecks; and (e) monitoring Project 
progress and outputs.  
 
-8- 
5. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a technical committee and a local 
development donor coordination mechanism throughout Project implementation with 
functions, composition and resources satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall, not later than September 15, 2009, take all action necessary 
on its part to: 
 
(a) 
prepare and adopt an equalization transfer system setting out inter alia 
measures to ensure equitable distribution of  resources amongst the 
municipalities;  
(b) 
adopt new urban planning standards and guidelines; and  
(c) 
adopt a comprehensive multi-agency local development strategy. 
7.  
Beginning the second year of Project implementation, and in each year thereafter 
for the duration of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare, publish and distribute a joint 
MOMA and MOF annual report, in form and with substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
setting out the aggregate inter-governmental fiscal transfers including inter alia the 
overall annual transfer resource pool amount and the aggregate allocation for each 
municipality. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than four (4) months prior to the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
-9- 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the World Bank’s national 
procurement procedures and the  following additional procedures:  
 
(a) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the World Bank shall be used. 
(b) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(c) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
-10- 
(d) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(e) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
(f) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance i.e. no non-registration status should be considered as a non-
eligibility-to-bid criterion. 
(g) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(h) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(i) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the World Bank. 
(j) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the World Bank. 
(k) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the 
award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the World Bank. 
(l) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(m) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the World Bank: (A) for the first request for extension if 
it is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(n) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
-11- 
(o) 
Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the World Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
(p) 
All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.
The following 
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding and National Competitive 
Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods and works for those contracts specified 
in the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; and (b) Direct Contracting. The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of 
consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement Plan: 
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (b) Selection of Individual 
Consultants; and (c) Single-Source Selection. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s prior review. All other contracts shall be subject to post-review by the Bank. 
 
2. 
Short lists composed entirely of national consultants.  Short lists of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
-12- 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of 
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in 
U.S. Dollars) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
 
(1) Goods 
150,000 
100% of foreign expenditures; 
100% of local expenditures ,ex-
factory , and 90% for all other 
items procured locally 
 
(2) Performance-Based Block 
Grants 
14,000,000 
90% of amounts disbursed by 
CVDB 
 
(3) Training & Workshops 
 
(a) for MOPIC/LDD   
 
(b) for CVDB 
 
70,000 
30,000 
100% 
 
(4)  Consultant    Services 
 
3,850,000 
 
90% for firms domiciled within 
the territory of the Borrower; 95% 
of local expenditures for services 
of individual consultants within 
the territory of the Borrower; 
100% of foreign expenditures  
(5)  CVDB  Management Fee 
 
900,000 
 
100% 
(6)  Front End Fee 
 
0
Amount due under Section 2.04 of 
the loan agreement (waived) 
(7)  Unallocated 
 
1,000,000 
 
Total 
 
20,000,000 
 
-13- 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after November 1, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
-14- 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies.   
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning  April 15, 2012 
 
through April 15, 2023  
 
4.17% 
 
On October 15, 2023 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
-15- 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
-16- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.   
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Beneficiary Municipality” means any municipality within the territory of the 
Borrower, meeting the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for 
carrying out a PBBG Sub-Project (as defined hereinafter) under Part B of the 
Project,  and to which the Borrower has made or proposes to make a PBBG .  
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Co-financier” means the French Agency for Development (as hereinafter 
defined). 
4. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. 
5. 
“Co-financing” means an equivalent amount in dollars of twenty million Euros  
(�20,000,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing a portion 
of Part B and Part C of the Project. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
7. 
“CVDB’s Legislation” means Law No. 63 of 1985 establishing the Cities and 
Villages Development Bank. 
8. 
“CVDB” means Cities and Villages Development Bank, established pursuant to 
Law No. 63 of 1985, which is a Project Implementing Entity as the term is 
defined in the General Conditions. 
9. 
“CVDB Management Fee” means the fee to be paid to CVDB for services 
provided in connection with the implementation of the Project.  
10. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means a plan dated September 26, 
2006, duly adopted by the Borrower, setting out: (i) the environmental mitigation 
and protection measures in respect of Project implementation of the respective 
parts of the Project; (ii) the design, construction, post-construction and operation 
stages of sub-Project implementation under Part B of the Project; (iii) 
institutional and financial aspects of implementing the EMP; and (iv) the 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
measures, as such Plan may be amended from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank.  
-17- 
11. 
“French Agency for Development (Agence Française de Développement)” means 
a French public institution set up in form of a state-owned entity, as defined in its 
statutes contained in a decree dated October 30, 1992, having its headquarters at 
5 rue Roland Barthes, 75598, Cedex, Paris 12, France. 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
13. 
“LDD” means the local development department in charge of local development 
in the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation. 
14. 
“Management Contract” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make a 
portion of the proceeds of the Loan available to CVDB. 
15. 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s ministry of finance and any successors thereto. 
16. 
“MOMA” means the Borrower’s ministry of municipal affairs and any 
successors thereto. 
17. 
“MOPIC” means the Borrower’s ministry of planning and international 
cooperation and any successors thereto. 
18. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s operational manual dated  
November 6, 2006, setting out inter alia: (i) the procurement, financial 
management, monitoring, evaluation and other guidelines and procedures to 
govern implementation of the Project; and (ii) the procedures, terms and 
conditions, and eligibility criteria for Beneficiary Municipalities to carry out 
PBBG sub-Projects under Part B of the Project including a positive list of eligible 
investments; as the same may be amended from time to time, in consultation 
with, and with the approval of, the Bank, and such term includes any schedules to 
the Operational Manual. 
19. 
“PBBG Sub-Project” means a subproject, for carrying out activities under Part B 
of the Project, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual and which is to be carried out by a Beneficiary Municipality utilizing, 
inter alia, the proceeds of a PBBG. 
20. 
“PBBG” means a performance-based block grant made or proposed to be made 
by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary Municipality 
for carrying out a PBBG sub-Project. 
21. 
“PDD” means CVDB’s department of planning and development responsible for 
Project implementation and coordination for parts B and C of the Project. 
22. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
-18- 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 30, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
24. 
“Water Authority of Jordan” means the Borrower’s water authority established 
under 
the 
Borrower’s 
Law 
No. 
34 
as 
an 
independent 
entity.
 
