CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7384 POL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 23, 2006  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7384 POL 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 23, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred fifty million Euro 
(EUR 150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
the Commitment Charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.01 of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth 
anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter; subject in either case to any waiver of a portion of 
such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-
end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
- 2 -
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower, through the MOTC: (i) shall cause the 
GDDKiA to carry out Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; (ii) shall cause the Secretariat 
of the NRSC to carry out Part 3 of the Project; and (iii) shall carry out Part 4 of 
the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part 
thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
- 3 -
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety days (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI  - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative and the official of the Borrower designated to 
request to the Bank the reallocation of the proceeds of the Loan among 
Categories for the purpose of Section 2.08 of the General Conditions is its 
Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
u1. Swietokrzyska 12 
00-916 Warszawa  
Republic of Poland 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
MINF  
 
825592 minf pl or 
(48-22) 826-6670 
Poland  
 
814386 minf pl 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at  Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND  
 
By: /s/ Jaroslaw Pietras 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Edgar Saravia 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in continuing improving the 
effectiveness of the country’s national road rehabilitation and maintenance systems, with 
emphasis on quality, efficiency, financial viability and road user satisfaction. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part 1:
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Carrying out of: (i) the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program of 
maintenance, rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction of existing roads selected 
for financing under GDDKiA’s 2006-2007 budget; throughout the National Road 
Network; (ii) at least one (1) pilot contract for Performance-based Management and 
Maintenance of Roads, including the provision of technical assistance, facilitation and 
training during the implementation period thereof; and (iii) a public awareness campaign 
in support of the Borrower’s road construction and rehabilitation program, based on the 
communication strategy developed by the GDDKiA in 2005. 
Part 2:
GDDKiA Management Information System
Completion of the implementation of GDDKiA’s Management Information 
System (MIS) through the implementation of a service contract with a telecommunication 
provider for the Wide Area Network (WAN) and a security system (hardware and 
software) for the protection of WAN, MIS resources, and Internet access.  
Part 3:
Road Safety
Support to the Secretariat of the NRSC in the promotion of road safety initiatives 
and for strengthening of its institutional capacity to carry out road safety programs and 
projects, including for such purposes, inter alia, the carrying out of campaigns and the 
provision of technical assistance and training. 
Part 4:
Technical Assistance to the MOTC
Provision of technical assistance as required: (i) to carry out an Intelligent 
Transport System study with the aim of establishing national standards for gathering and 
transferring information; (ii) to promote a better and faster absorption of the European 
Union regional funds for the current (2004-2006) and next (2007-2013) transport 
operational programs in the Borrower’s territory, including the development of a 
handbook for the use of the MOTC staff and Project beneficiaries which provides 
guidelines on project selection, preparation, and implementation; (iii) to improve roads 
technical standards and traffic management; and (iv) to audit the three Bank-financed 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Projects in Poland. 
 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Ministry of Transport and Construction 
The MOTC shall be responsible for overall Project coordination and quality 
control of the Project through the Project Coordination Unit. 
B. 
Project Coordination Unit 
The Borrower shall maintain the PCU within the MOTC, headed by a Project 
Coordinator, until completion of the Project, with staff, resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Specifically, the PCU shall be assigned responsibility for 
overall Project coordination and monitoring, in close cooperation with the Project 
Management Teams established, inter alia, in the GDDKiA and the Secretariat of the 
NRSC. 
C. 
Operational Manual 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the MOTC, shall cause the GDDKiA to take all 
action required to carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual, including, inter alia: (i) the procedures for the 
selection, carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the maintenance and rehabilitation 
of works thereunder; (ii) any requirements relating to environmental and social standards 
satisfactory to the Bank and those required to enforce and monitor the strict adherence by 
each contractor under Part 1 of the Project to the measures specially designed to ensure 
that the works in question do not cause or result in Resettlement; and (iii) all applicable 
laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to work and road safety and environmental 
protection. 
(b) 
Subject to the Bank’s prior approval, the Borrower, through the MOTC, 
may assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or a provision thereof. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) year, and shall be furnished to the Bank each year 
not later than March 31.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
- 7 -
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
six-month period, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the six-
month period, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that for 
the first un-audited financial report covering the period from Project inception through 
December 31, 2006, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank such report not 
later than February 15, 2007. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year of the Borrower or other period that 
may be agreed to by the Bank.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period or 
other period that may be agreed to by the Bank. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (Other than Consultants’ Services).  All goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement method or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
- 8 -
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other 
than Consultants’ Services)  
1. 
International and National Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise 
provided in paragraph 2 below, goods, works and services (other than consultants’ 
services) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding and National Competitive Bidding procedures.  In the case of 
National Competitive Bidding, the Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which this method may be used.  Open tendering shall be applied with the 
following additional procedures: (i) the term “Best Offer” shall be understood as the 
lowest evaluated bid, selected following evaluation with the use of quantifiable factors 
expressed in monetary terms; and (ii) no merit points system shall be used to evaluate 
bids. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services). The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other 
than International and National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services).  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Shopping 
(b) 
Direct Contracting 
(c) 
Performance-Based Procurement (ICB) 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Methods
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed-Budget 
(c) 
Least-Cost Selection 
- 9 -
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
(f) 
Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to 
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
- 10 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) 
Roads Maintenance 
 
and Rehabilitation 
 
Transfers 
 
118,325,000 
 
48% 
(2) 
Works and 
 
Technical 
 
Assistance under 
 
Parts 1 (ii) and (iii) 
 
of the Project 
 
20,875,000 
 
100% 
(3) 
Implementation of 
 
the MIS under Part 
 
2 of the Project, 
 
including 
 
expenditures to 
 
finance the user fee 
 
for the wide-area 
 
network under Part 
 
2 of the Project 
 
2,500,000 
 
100% 
(4) 
Road Safety 
 
Assistance under 
 
Part 3 of the Project 
 
5,500,000 
 
100% 
(5) 
Technical  
 
Assistance to the 
 
MOTC under  
 
Part 4 of the 
 
Project 
 
2,800,000 
 
78% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
150,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
- 11 -
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: (i) from the Loan Account, until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or (ii) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 15, 2011. 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May15 and November15 
 
Beginning on November 15, 2011  
 
through May 15, 2021 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
- 13 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
- 14 -
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year. 
4. 
“GDDKiA” means the Borrower’s General Directorate for National Roads and 
Motorways, a central body of the Borrower’s administration falling under the 
supervision of the MOTC (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (8) of this 
Appendix), and composed of its headquarters office in Warsaw and its sixteen 
(16) regional offices. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
6. 
“HDM-4 System” means the Highway Development and Management 
Computerized System within the GDDKiA providing information for the 
analysis of road management and investment alternatives. 
7. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators 
set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under the 
Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the 
degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved. 
8. 
“MOTC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Construction, or any 
successor thereto. 
9. 
“National Road Network” means the portion of the Borrower’s road network 
under the administration of the GDDKiA encompassing a length of about 18,368 
km. 
10. 
“NRSC” 
means 
the 
Borrower’s 
National 
Road 
Safety 
Council, 
an 
interdisciplinary body falling under the supervision of the MOTC. 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the Operations Manual adopted by the Borrower on 
June 10, 2004, under the Bank-financed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation 
Project (Loan Agreement No. 7223-POL dated April 7, 2004) and which may be 
updated pursuant to the provisions of Section I, paragraph C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
- 15 -
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 31, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“Program” means the program setting forth the guiding principles that the 
Borrower shall follow in relation to its general responsibilities for the road sector 
and in relation to the specific responsibilities of the GDDKiA with a view to 
encourage provision of an efficient and sustainable road network capable of 
supporting the Borrower’s national socio-economic goals and described in a 
letter dated February 24, 2004, from the Borrower to the Bank. 
15. 
“Project Coordination Unit” and “PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit 
established by the Borrower within the MOTC under the Bank-financed Road 
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan Agreement No. 7223-POL dated 
April 7, 2004). 
16. 
“Resettlement” means: (i) the involuntary (i.e., an action that may be taken 
without a person’s informed consent or power of choice) taking of land, 
including anything growing on or permanently affixed to such land, such as 
buildings and crops, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of 
assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, 
whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas 
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the affected persons, and 
encompassing restrictions on the use of resources imposed on people living 
outside a park or protected area, or on those who continue living inside the park 
or protected area during and after Project implementation. 
17. 
“Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program” means the sub-program for 
road maintenance and rehabilitation co-financed by the Bank, prepared by the 
GDDKiA with the assistance of the updated HDM-4 System, and which 
constitutes part of the GDDKiA budget allocated for the management of the 
National Road Network. 
18. 
“Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers” means the amount, consisting 
of forty-eight per cent (48%) out of the proceeds of the Loan and fifty-two per 
cent (52%) from the Borrower’s own resources made up from the state budget 
and from a loan from the European Investment Bank, transferred by the 
Borrower through its Ministry of Finance to the MOTC and through the MOTC 
to GDDKiA to cover the costs of goods, works and services required for the 
implementation of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program. 
19. 
“Secretariat of the NRSC” means the Secretariat of the NRSC, a Unit of the 
MOTC.
 
