CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4833-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Support for Strategic Local Development and Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 3, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4833-PH 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 3, 2006, between LAND BANK OF THE 
PHILIPPINES (Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (Bank).   
 
(A)  
the Republic of the Philippines (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) dated of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other 
obligations set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor on the 
goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing 
of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. 
To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the 
- 2 -
amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of 
the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project has experienced or would experience direct economic and/or social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, 
whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary 
restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse 
impacts on the livelihood of such person; and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, the 
plural thereof; 
 
(b) 
“Approved Subproject” in respect of each Participating LGU or 
Participating Institution, means a project described in Part 1(a) or Part 1(b) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement meeting the eligibility requirements set out in the Project Operations 
Manual and approved in accordance with the terms; 
 
(c) 
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the central bank of the Guarantor 
and any successor thereto; 
 
(d) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 
2004; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(g) 
“Environment and Social Safeguards Framework” means the policy 
framework including the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, the 
environmental assessment framework and management plan, the framework for 
- 3 -
protection of indigenous peoples and the framework for protection of cultural property, 
satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower on May 10, 2006 and set out in the 
Project Operations Manual, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“IRA” means an internal revenue allotment from the central government 
of the Republic of the Philippines to a local government unit in accordance with the laws 
of the Republic of the Philippines prevailing from time to time; 
 
(j) 
“Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy Framework” 
means the framework included in the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework 
adopted by the Borrower on May 10, 2006, providing procedures, rules and guidelines 
for: (i) involuntary taking of land and other assets from Affected Persons; (ii) 
resettlement and rehabilitation of, and compensation to, Affected Persons; and (iii) 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with such framework, as 
such framework may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(k) 
“LBP Charter” means the charter of the Borrower, the Republic Act 
3844, dated August 8, 1963, as amended; 
 
(l) 
“Participating LGU” means each local government unit selected to 
participate in an Approved Subproject pursuant to the requirements of the Project 
Operations Manual; 
 
(m) 
“Participating Institution” means each public utility or private sector 
entity providing local infrastructure services selected to participate in an Approved 
Subproject pursuant to the requirements of the Project Operations Manual and 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(n) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the 
Project, dated May 10, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs; 
 
(p) 
“Project Management Office” and “PMO” mean the office established 
and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
 
- 4 -
(q) 
“Project Management Unit” and “PMU” mean the unit to be established 
and maintained by each Participating LGU and each Participating Institution in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Project Operations Manual” means the operations manual setting out 
the requirements for Project implementation, including Subproject Proposal selection 
criteria, financial management requirements, procurement procedures, reporting 
procedures and anti-corruption measures, to be adopted by the Borrower acceptable to the 
Bank; as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Bank; 
 
(s) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“Subloan” means each loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower to a Participating LGU or a Participating Institution pursuant to a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; 
 
(v) 
“Subproject Proposal” means a proposal submitted for consideration to 
the Borrower by a Participating LGU or a Participating Institution for a project described 
in Part 1(a) or Part 1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(w) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means each agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a Participating LGU or Participating Institution pursuant to 
paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available for the Approved Subproject; and 
 
(x) 
“Yen” and “JPY” each means the lawful currency of Japan. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eleven 
billion seven hundred ten million Yen (JPY11,710,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
- 5 -
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2012 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Yen for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
- 6 -
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.  
 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
- 7 -
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
- 8 -
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 12 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:  
 
(a) 
the LBP Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; or 
 
(b) 
the Guarantor or any other entity having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or the suspension of its 
operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any of the events specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower shall have adopted the Project Operations Manual 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
at least two Participating LGUs shall have entered into Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements with the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with paragraph 8 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that:   
 
(a) 
each Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 6.01(b) has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective Participating LGU, and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the respective Participating LGU in accordance 
with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
the provisions of the Environmental and Social Policy Framework are 
legally valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms. 
- 10 -
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The President and Chief Executive Officer of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Land Bank of the Philippines 
1598 M. H. del Pilar Cor Dr. J. Quintos Street 
Malate, 1004 Manila 
Republic of the Philippines 
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
64045 LBP PH  
 
632-528-8523  
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By: /s/ Gilda E. Pico 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. 
General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
 (Expressed in Yen)
% of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for 
Approved Subprojects for 
the Part 1 of the Project 
 
10,539,000,000 
100% of amounts disbursed
(2)  Goods and consultants’ 
services for the Part 2 of the 
Project 
 
1,141,725,000 
100% of amounts disbursed
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
29,275,000 
 
____________ 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
11,710,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made:  
 
(a)  
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding JPY1,171,000,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 20, 2006; or 
 
(b) 
under Category 2 unless a contract satisfactory to the Bank for the 
consulting services of the implementation support consultant as set out in the 
Procurement Plan satisfactory to the Bank has been signed. 
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; and (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
- 13 -
than $350,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Yen a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank specifically authorized by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas and 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 1, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
- 14 -
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of:  
(i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case  
may be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 1 if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 15 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of one billion one hundred seventy one million Yen (JPY1,171,000,000) to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 16 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve local public service provision and 
management by facilitating access by local government units to viable financing to 
implement strategic infrastructure investments. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part 1: Subprojects for Infrastructure and Finance Improvement
(a) 
Provision of Subloans to enable Participating LGUs and Participating 
Institutions to implement Approved Subprojects for individual infrastructure 
investments or for a program of infrastructure investments, including: water 
supply and sanitation facilities; mini hydropower development; solid waste 
management facilities; wastewater treatment and disposal; housing and new 
site development; roads and bridges; drainage and flood protection facilities; 
schools and health clinics; municipal enterprise structures such as public 
markets; and procurement of heavy equipment for local infrastructure 
construction and maintenance. 
 
(b) 
Provision of Subloans to enable Participating LGUs and Participating 
Institutions to implement Approved Subprojects for improving financial 
management and revenue generating capacity, including: acquisition of 
information communication technology; development and improvement of 
real property tax assessment and business permits and licensing systems; 
development of treasury operations management systems; and improving 
financial reporting for municipal enterprises and public service facilities. 
 
Part 2: LGU Capacity Building and Project Implementation Support
(a) 
Assisting Participating LGUs with Subproject preparation, procurement, 
supervision and management including monitoring of outcomes during 
construction and improved management and operation of municipal 
enterprises and services. 
 
(b) 
Supporting the Borrower in screening and evaluation of Subproject 
Proposals. 
 
- 18 -
(c) 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to provide technical assistance to 
Participating LGUs and Participating Institutions, including through training 
and study visits. 
 
*** 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2011. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Yen)∗
December 15, 2011 
 
377,195,000 
June 15, 2012 
 
378,080,000 
December 15, 2012 
 
378,970,000 
June 15, 2013 
 
379,860,000 
December 15, 2013 
 
380,750,000 
June 15, 2014 
 
381,645,000 
December 15, 2014 
 
382,545,000 
June 15, 2015 
 
383,445,000 
December 15, 2015 
 
384,345,000 
June 15, 2016 
 
385,245,000 
December 15, 2016 
 
386,150,000 
June 15, 2017 
 
387,060,000 
December 15, 2017 
 
387,970,000 
June 15, 2018 
 
388,880,000 
December 15, 2018 
 
389,795,000 
June 15, 2019 
 
390,710,000 
December 15, 2019 
 
391,630,000 
June 15, 2020 
 
392,550,000 
December 15, 2020 
 
393,470,000 
June 15, 2021 
 
394,395,000 
December 15, 2021 
 
395,325,000 
June 15, 2022 
 
396,255,000 
December 15, 2022 
 
397,185,000 
June 15, 2023 
 
398,115,000 
December 15, 2023 
 
399,055,000 
June 15, 2024 
 
399,990,000 
December 15, 2024 
 
400,930,000 
June 15, 2025 
 
401,875,000 
December 15, 2025 
 
402,815,000 
June 15, 2026 
 
403,765,000 
 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in Yen to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.  
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule 4.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule 4.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule 4 to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.   
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the provisions set out in the Annex to this Schedule 4. 
 
2. 
Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract  and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Commercial Practices. Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract and to be financed under Subloans to private sector Participating Institutions for 
Subprojects under Part 1 of the Project, may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices acceptable to the Bank. 
- 21 -
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Individual Consultants.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior review 
of the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 22 -
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 4 
 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
With respect to goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 4, the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures of the 
Guarantor shall apply, except that, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank in writing, the 
following procedures shall be followed: 
 
1.  
Eligibility screening shall not be applied.  However, bids that do not contain any 
of the following documents will not pass the documentary compliance check: (a) 
evidence of the required financial, technical or production capability; (b) audited 
financial statements; (c) credit line, or cash deposit certificate; (d) bid security; and (e) 
authority of the bid signatory. 
 
2.  
In the case of prequalification, if any bidder is denied access to the bidding 
process for reasons unrelated to its financial and technical qualifications to perform the 
contract, prior concurrence of the Bank shall be sought. 
 
3.  
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with prior concurrence of the Bank in 
advance of bidding. However, the approved budget estimate may be disclosed in the 
advertisement or in the bidding documents. 
 
4.  
Domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the evaluation of bids, 
and other preferences in effect in the Philippines will not be used except with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
 
5.  
Suppliers and contractors will not be required to purchase only local goods or 
supplies or materials. 
 
6.  
In case of contracts for prior review, modifications exceeding fifteen percent 
(15%) of contract amount and material changes in the conditions during implementation 
require prior Bank concurrence. 
 
7.  
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if interested, 
without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint venture with, local firms. 
Moreover, foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, even without registration, licensing, 
and other government authorizations, leaving these requirements for after award and 
before signing of contract. 
 
8.  
For works contract, the experience qualification requirement shall be: (a) at least 
one previous contract at eighty percent (80%) of the estimated cost of the contract being 
procured; and (b) an annual turnover from all works averaged over the last three (3) years 
equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the contract being procured. 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Office (PMO), satisfactory 
to the Bank, with adequate staff in adequate numbers throughout project implementation. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Participating LGU and each Participating 
Institution shall have established and shall maintain throughout project implementation, a 
Project Management Unit (PMU) with adequate staff in adequate numbers, satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
Project Implementation
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
Project Operations Manual and shall not amend or otherwise change the Project 
Operations Manual except with the prior written consent of the Bank.  Without limiting 
the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall ensure that Approved Subprojects are 
identified, appraised, documented, implemented, supervised, monitored and evaluated in 
accordance with the Project Operations Manual. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph 3, the Borrower shall submit to the 
Bank for prior approval the following: (a) each Subproject Proposal that is submitted by a 
Participating Institution rather than a Participating LGU, except as may be otherwise 
agreed by the Bank; (b) the first Subproject Proposal that involves a program of 
infrastructure investments rather than a single infrastructure investment; (c) each 
Subproject Proposal with procurement requiring prior review as set out in the 
Procurement Plan; (d) each Subproject Proposal with a resettlement action plan required 
by the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework; and (e) the first environmental 
impact statement report prepared in each of the areas of housing and new site 
development, sewerage, sanitary landfill, drainage and flood control, hospital and 
medical facilities, and the first initial environmental examination report prepared for a 
category B Subproject, as defined in the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, 
in each of the following three areas: water supply systems; roads; and bridges, each in 
accordance with the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its review and approval no later than 
January 31 in each year a draft annual plan of Project activities, including a work 
program, proposed budget, and proposed commitment plan for that year. 
 
6. 
In each case where an Approved Subproject involves a program of infrastructure 
investments, the Borrower shall ensure that such program has received the prior approval 
of the relevant Participating LGU’s council. 
- 24 -
7. 
The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for prior approval the terms of reference 
for consulting firms proposed to be procured by the Borrower for capacity building 
activities under Part 2 of the Project. 
 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
8. 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan under Part 1 available to each 
Participating LGU and each Participating Institution pursuant to a subsidiary loan 
agreement (each a “Subsidiary Loan Agreement”) between the Borrower and such 
Participating LGU or Participating Institution.  Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall 
contain such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Borrower’s form of standard 
subsidiary loan agreement approved by the Bank, which shall include without limitation, 
those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 5. 
 
9. 
No expenditures for goods, works or consultants’ services required by a 
Participating LGU or a Participating Institution to carry out its Approved Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:  (a) the expenditure 
meets the eligibility requirements set out in the Project Operations Manual; (b) the 
Participating LGU or Participating Institution shall have entered into its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower; and (c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective Participating 
LGU or Participating Institution, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
respective Participating LGU or Participating Institution in accordance with its terms. 
 
10. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower 
shall take all steps necessary to ensure that each Participating LGU and each Participating 
Institution: (a) shall have taken all actions required by the confirmations set out in 
Section 2(a) of the Annex to this Schedule 5 to be taken prior to commencement of its 
Approved Subproject; and (b) shall take as and when required all actions set out in 
Section 2(b) of the Annex to this Schedule 5. 
 
11. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, abrogate 
or waive each Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions; or amend any 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of its provisions other than in a manner consistent 
with the Project Operations Manual and the Borrower’s standard form of subsidiary loan 
agreement as agreed by the Bank.   
 
Monitoring and Evaluation
12. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
- 25 -
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about each April 30 and October 31, or such other dates as the Bank may 
agree, beginning April 30, 2007, a semi-annual report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six-month period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by one (1) month following each such report, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter;  
 
(d) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank on or about May 31, 2009 or such later date as the Bank shall request a mid-
term report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(e)   
include in each of the progress reports referred to in Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement a report on the implementation of the Environment and Social Safeguards 
Framework. 
- 26 -
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 5 
 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
For the purposes of paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall ensure that Loan proceeds under Part 1 of the Project shall be made available to 
Participating LGUs and Participating Institutions only on terms and conditions set forth 
in this Annex. 
 
Section 1.
Terms of Availability
(a) 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the following terms: 
 
 
(i) 
a loan amount based on the requirements of the Approved 
Subproject, but in no case to exceed the net borrowing capacity 
of the Participating LGU or the projected Subproject cash flow 
for the Participating Institution, in each case determined in 
accordance with the Project Operations Manual; 
 
(ii) 
a maximum term of fifteen (15) years with a maximum grace 
period of three (3) years; 
 
(iii) 
a rate of interest determined by the Borrower in accordance with 
the Project Operations Manual; 
 
(iv) 
a collateral requirement acceptable to the Borrower including, 
but not limited to, any or a combination of: (A) real estate 
mortgage; (B) hold-out on deposit; (C) chattel mortgage; and (D) 
assignment of IRA (for Participating LGUs); and 
 
(v) 
disbursement procedures in accordance with the Project 
Operations Manual. 
 
 
Section 2.
Conditions
(a) 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the representation by the 
Participating LGU or Participating Institution that, prior to the commencement of the 
Approved Subproject, it has: 
 
(i) 
prepared the Approved Subproject consistent with the 
participatory multi-year local development plan of the 
Participating LGU where the Approved Subproject will be 
undertaken; 
 
- 27 -
(ii) 
adopted and agreed to carry out and implement its Approved 
Subproject in accordance with the Project Operations Manual 
and the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework;  
 
(iii) 
established, in the case of Participating LGUs through an 
executive order and in the case of a Participating Institution in 
accordance with its internal procedures, and agreed to maintain a 
Project Management Unit managed and staffed with qualified 
personnel in adequate numbers to supervise the implementation 
of its Approved Subproject; 
 
(iv) 
completed the acquisition of all land necessary for its Approved 
Subproject and obtained clear title thereto in accordance with the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework; 
 
(v) 
for each Approved Subproject where the number of Affected 
Persons is higher than 200, prepared and furnished to the 
Borrower and the Bank a detailed resettlement action plan 
documenting the implementation arrangements for resettlement, 
including compensation, relocation and rehabilitation in 
accordance with the terms of the Environment and Social 
Safeguards Framework, satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank, and taken all steps required to be taken thereunder prior to 
commencement of the Approved Subproject; 
 
(vi) 
undertaken an environmental assessment and prepared an 
environmental management plan to the extent required by and in 
accordance with the Environment and Social Safeguards 
Framework, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and 
taken all steps required to be taken thereunder prior to 
commencement of the Approved Subproject; 
 
(vii) 
as applicable in accordance with the Environment and Social 
Safeguards Framework, identified any indigenous peoples in the 
Approved Subproject area, and  prepared an indigenous peoples 
plan to the extent required by and in accordance with the 
Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Bank, and taken all steps required to be 
taken thereunder prior to commencement of the Approved 
Subproject; and 
 
(viii) 
as applicable in accordance with the Environment and Social 
Safeguards Framework, identified any cultural property in the 
Approved Subproject area, and prepared a plan for management 
thereof to the extent required by and in accordance with the 
- 28 -
Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Bank and taken all steps required to be 
taken thereunder prior to commencement of the Approved 
Subproject.  
 
(b) 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include undertakings by the 
Participating LGU or Participating Institution that it shall: 
 
(i)  
to the extent that a resettlement action plan is required by and in 
accordance with the Environment and Social Safeguards 
Framework, implement such resettlement action plan in 
accordance with its terms in a manner satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
obtain all environmental compliance certificates required under 
Philippine laws and regulations for the operation and 
maintenance of its Approved Subproject, and to the extent that 
an environmental management plan is required by the 
Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, implement such 
environmental management plan in accordance with its terms in 
a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(iii) 
to the extent that an indigenous peoples plan is required by the 
Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, implement such 
indigenous peoples plan in accordance with its terms in a manner 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(iv) 
to the extent that a plan for management of cultural property is 
required by the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, 
implement such plan in accordance with its terms in a manner 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(v) 
provide adequate resources to carry out, operate and maintain its 
Approved Subproject with due diligence and efficiency in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial and 
environmental standards and practices; 
 
(vi) 
ensure that the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
shall be procured in accordance with the Procurement Guidelines 
and that such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Approved Subproject; and 
 
(vii) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent 
- 29 -
with sound business practice, and without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of 
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to the place of 
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable 
in currency freely usable by the Participating LGU or 
Participating Institution. 
 
(c) 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the rights of the 
Borrower to: 
 
(i) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants 
and construction included in the Approved Subproject, and the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(ii) 
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to the Approved Subproject or the 
use of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating LGU or 
Participating Institution to the use of the proceeds of the Loan 
upon failure by such Participating LGU or Participating 
Institution to perform its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the condition that no 
disbursement shall occur: 
 
(i) 
until the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the respective Participating LGU or 
Participating Institution, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the respective Participating LGU or Participating 
Institution in accordance with its terms, and the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement shall have become effective in accordance with its 
terms; 
 
(ii) 
for any expenditures other than those meeting the eligibility 
requirements set out in the Project Operations Manual; and 
 
(iii) 
until the Participating LGU or Participating Institution shall have 
taken the actions specified under subparagraphs (a)(ii) through 
(viii) above. 
- 30 -
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Project Performance Indicators 
 
1. 
Number of households benefiting from the Project with improved access to 
basic social, economic and environmental infrastructure services in 
Participating LGUs from baseline year to end of Project year. 
 
2. 
Increase in proportion of capital expenditure to total expenditure among 
Participating LGUs by end of Project. 
 
3. 
Satisfactory completion of fifty (50) priority investment Approved 
Subprojects by Participating LGUs.  
 
4. 
The Borrower’s non-performing loan percentage for Participating LGUs 
remains 
below 
two 
percent 
(2%).
 
