CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7351 - MOR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’EAU POTABLE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 9, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 7351 - MOR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 2006 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and OFFICE NATIONAL DE 
L’EAU POTABLE (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in  
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
- 2 -
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Basic Legislation” means the Guarantor’s Law (“Dahir”) No. 1.72.103, 
dated April 19, 1972, as amended and completed by the Guarantor’s Law (“Dahir”)  
No. 31.00, dated September 7, 2000, pursuant to which the Borrower has been 
established and is operating as an industrial and commercial public corporation; 
(b) 
“Criteria” means the criteria for the selection and implementation of Sub-
projects (as this term is hereinafter defined), set forth in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“EMF” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Framework 
dated September 16, 2005, which assesses the environmental impacts and sets out the 
environmental mitigation and protection measures in respect of the carrying out of the 
Project, including the procedures applying to the selection, implementation and 
monitoring of Sub-projects (as this term is hereinafter defined), as well as the 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
measures, as such Framework may be amended from time to time with the prior approval 
of the Bank; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” means each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, staring January 1 
and ending December 31 of each calendar year; 
(f) 
“MAD” means Moroccan Dirham, the lawful currency of the Guarantor; 
(g) 
“Pre-financing Mechanism” means a mechanism operated by the 
Borrower for the financing of Sub-projects under Part B of the Project, whereby the 
Borrower provides a credit using the Loan proceeds, in an amount not exceeding  
2,500 MAD (as this term is hereinafter defined), on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, to a water user seeking an individual household connection to a village 
- 3 -
(“douar”) water distribution system, said credit constituting a portion of said user’s 
contribution to the construction cost of said system; 
(h)  
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
November 11, 2005 covering the initial twelve (12) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding twelve (12) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation;  
(i) 
“Project Area” means the Guarantor’s provinces of Essaouira, Safi, El 
Jadida, Taza and Taounate, or such other provinces as agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank;  
(j) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s framework, 
dated September 16, 2005, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of land 
acquisition activities under Parts A and B of the Project, which Framework sets out the 
procedures to be followed in the carrying out of said activities, referred to in to  
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Framework may be amended from 
time to time with the prior approval of the Bank; and 
(k) 
“Sub-project” means any specific investment, acceptable to the Bank, to 
be made under Parts A and B of the Project, in accordance with paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty nine 
million five hundred thousand Euros (�49,500,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works,  and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and any premium in 
respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
- 4 -
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2012, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
 Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
- 5 -
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, financial, public 
utility, water management and sanitation, and technical practices, and environmental and 
social standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Environmental Management Framework Plan, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
- 6 -
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal 
Year (or such other period agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Year (or such 
other period agreed between the Borrower and the Bank):  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Year (or such other period 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank), as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
- 7 -
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year (or such other period agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
 Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s obligations set out in 
paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
such calendar semester. 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
for each of its Fiscal Years throughout the duration of the Project, meet a self financing 
ratio of its average yearly investment program equivalent to at least 15%, or any other 
- 8 -
percentage agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, such ratio to be calculated on the 
basis of a methodology agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. 
(b)  
In the event that the Borrower does not meet the self financing ratio of its 
average yearly investment program equivalent to at least 15%, or any other percentage 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to the preceding sub-paragraph (a), 
the Borrower, after consultation with the Bank, shall take all necessary measures agreed 
upon with the Guarantor to meet said ratio. 
Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prior to the commissioning of Sub-projects under Part A of the Project, 
put in place appropriate devices and take adequate measures to enable the recording and 
analysis, at the levels of, respectively, production, abstraction and distribution, of the 
volumes of water produced or abstracted from trunk mains and subsequently sold to 
standpipes operators or distribution systems at the village (“douar”) level; and 
(b) 
undertake all necessary measures to: (i) not later than June 30, 2008, 
upgrade its billing and collection system so as to ensure proper billing, collection and 
management of accounts receivable in relation to each Sub-project completed under Part 
A of the Project; and (ii) not later than December 31, 2008, extend, upon the initiation of 
each Sub-project carried out under Part A of the Project, its cost accounting system to 
encompass cost accounting reporting pertaining to the management and operation of each 
said Sub-project.  
ARTICLE V 
Management and Operations of the Borrower 
 Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: 
(a)  
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, economic, engineering, financial, public utility, water management and 
sanitation, and technical practices, and environmental and social standards under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management, who is assisted by competent staff 
in adequate numbers; 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility 
practices; and 
- 9 -
(c) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice. 
- 10 -
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Basic Legislation shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VII 
Termination 
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:                Telex:  
 
Fascimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI)  
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C.            64145 (MCI) 
 
- 11 -
For the Borrower: 
Office National de l’Eau Potable 
Station de Traitement 
Avenue Mohamed Belhassan 
El Ouazzani B.P. Rabat Chellah 
10002 Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile:  
 
31982 M 
 
 
212-37-75-91-06 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By          
/s/ Ferid Belhaj                
 
Authorized Representative 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’EAU POTABLE 
 
By  
 
/s/ Ali Fassi-Fihri 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Euros)
% of
Expenditures 
To be Financed
(1) 
Works 
36,376,250 
80% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,000,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Consultants services 
3,000,000 
                 100% 
 
(4) 
Pre-financing 
Mechanism 
 
5,000,000 
100% 
 
(5) 
Front-end Fee 
123,750 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and Interest 
Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under 
Section 2.09(c) of 
this Agreement 
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
4,000,000 
 
 
_________  
 
TOTAL 
     49,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “works” means expenditures in 
connection with civil works, the provision and installation of pipes, treatment plants, 
power lines and connections, remote operating systems (“systèmes de télégestion”) and 
equipment for the installation of pumping stations. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding two million Euros  
(�2,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after November 1, 2005. 
- 13 -
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures under contracts for works costing 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract; (b) expenditures under contracts for services 
of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) 
expenditures under contracts for services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (d) expenditures under contracts for goods costing 
less than $2,500,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) the Pre-financing Mechanism, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in supporting the 
Guarantor’s program in the Project Area aiming at increasing sustainable access to 
potable water supply in rural areas, while promoting improved wastewater management 
and hygiene practices. 
Part A: Water Production and Conveyance
Implementation of a program of Sub-projects, consisting in the carrying out of 
works and the provision of technical assistance and goods, to deliver water supply to 
villages (“douar”), through the carrying out of works for the construction of lateral mains 
from existing or planned regional trunk lines (“piquages”), storage tanks and public 
standpipes and, in limited cases, water production facilities such as water treatment 
plants, pumping stations and water intake structures connected to existing dams.  
Part B: Water Distribution and Wastewater Management
Implementation of a program of Sub-projects, consisting in the carrying out of 
works and the provision of technical assistance and goods, for the design, construction 
and supervision of village (“douar”) water distribution systems granting individual 
household connections to users, including: (a) the establishment of mechanisms to 
mitigate the increase in wastewater flows resulting from said systems; and (b) the setting-
up and operation of a Pre-financing Mechanism to facilitate individual household 
connections to said systems. 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening and Project Implementation Support
Enhancing the Borrower’s capacity in Project management and participatory 
approach to service provision, and promoting effective integration of hygiene and 
wastewater management in water supply services, through the provision of technical 
assistance and training.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2012.
-15- 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; and (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
February 1, 2012 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2012 
3.13% 
 
 
February 1, 2013 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2013 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2014 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2014 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2015 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2015 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2016 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2016 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2017 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2017 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2018 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2018 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2019 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2019 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2020 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2020 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2021 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2021 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2022 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2022 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2023 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2023 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2024 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2024 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2025 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2025 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2026 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2026 
3.13% 
 
February 1, 2027 
3.13% 
 
August 1, 2027 
2.97%
-16- 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
- 17 -
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured by contractors in the territory of the Guarantor. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. Goods estimated to cost $2,500,000 equivalent or 
less per contract and works estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Said procedures shall ensure,  
inter alia, that: 
(a)  
The bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award criteria and 
bidder qualification criteria; 
(b) 
Technical, administrative and financial envelopes are publicly and 
simultaneously opened; 
- 19 -
(c) 
 Bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in the 
bid documents and quantified in monetary terms and contracts are awarded to the 
qualified bidder with the lowest evaluated responsive bid; 
(d) 
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding document 
to be used under National Competitive Bidding procurement must be submitted to, and 
found acceptable, by the Bank;  
(e) 
The requirement for bidders to have a local representative, established in 
the territory of the Guarantor, shall not apply; and 
(f) 
The evaluation method for procurement of goods should be on a lot 
basis, rather than on an article basis. 
2. 
Shopping. Works and goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Direct Contracting. Works for railway crossings and the connection of newly 
installed electrical lines to water production and conveyance facilities under Part A of the 
Project, which are specialized or of a proprietary nature, may be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines. All other goods and works may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Quality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
- 20 -
3. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a single-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Project Coordination and Implementation
1. 
The Borrower, through its Central Directorate for Generalization for Potable 
Water Supply (“Direction Centrale de Généralisation de l’Approvisionnement en Eau 
Potable” (DEP), shall be responsible for overall Project oversight, supervision, 
monitoring and coordination. The Borrower shall ensure that DEP is, at all times, 
provided with adequate resources and staffed with suitably qualified personnel in 
adequate number, including, inter alia, a Project Coordinator, to carry out its operations. 
2. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
ensure that: 
(i) 
its provincial and regional directorates are vested with the 
responsibility of overseeing topographic surveys, handling 
procurement, carrying out technical, environmental and social 
studies, community mobilization, hygiene education and 
construction and supervision of works under Sub-projects, 
including monitoring of environmental impact said Sub-projects; 
and  
(ii) 
its directorate of finance (“direction financière”) is vested with 
the responsibility of financial management of the Project; and 
(b) 
cause each of said directorate to carry out its respective responsibilities 
consistent with this Agreement, all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project: 
(a)  
Representative of users at the village (“douar”) level, through villages 
committees (“comités de villages”), will: (i) participate in Sub-project designs; (ii) collect 
user contributions to construction cost of water production, conveyance and distribution 
infrastructure and waste water management infrastructure; and (iii) take part in the 
selection of the local operator (such as a water user association, a private operator or a 
cooperative) responsible for the operation and maintenance of the water distribution and 
collective wastewater management systems.  
(b)  
The Borrower shall enter into a contractual arrangement with the relevant 
municipality (“commune rurale”) and the local operator selected by the villages 
- 22 -
committees, each said arrangement to specify the respective role and responsibility of 
each party. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
4. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a) 
all works and land acquisition activities are carried out in accordance 
with the EMF and the Resettlement Policy Framework, as the case may be, in a manner 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b)  
the EMF and the Resettlement Policy Framework shall not be amended, 
revised, or abrogated without the prior approval of the Bank. 
Criteria for the selection and implementation of Sub-projects
5. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that each Sub-
project:  
(a) 
does not exceed a construction cost per capita of two thousand  
(2,000) MAD and a discounted operation cost per cubic meter (m3) of five (5) MAD. In 
the event that the total cost of the proposed Sub-project exceeds either or both ceilings 
referred to herein, the Borrower shall provide adequate information to the Bank 
confirming that the technical approach, to be followed under said Sub-project, is the most 
cost-effective;  
(b) 
has been selected following a participatory process involving the 
Guarantor’s relevant provinces, municipalities (“communes rurales”) and water users, on 
the basis of participatory diagnostic reports and minutes confirming the commitment of 
each concerned villages committee that at least 70% of villages (“douars”) shall benefit 
from said Sub-project; 
(c) 
is financially and technically sound and economically justified, based on 
prior studies acceptable to the Bank; 
(d) 
has been subject to an adequate environmental and land acquisition 
screening and evaluation process in accordance with environmental, resettlement and 
social safeguards set forth in the EMF and the Resettlement Policy Framework;  
(e) 
receives a financing of at least 15% from the relevant municipality or 
other public entity and at least five hundred (500) MAD per household concerned; and 
- 23 -
(f) 
has been given a water withdrawal authorization by the relevant water 
basin agency in the event that additional water resources need to be exploited under the 
proposed Sub-project.  
6. 
For purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:  
 
(a) 
prior to the carrying out of each Sub-project providing for the installation 
of household connections, adequate wastewater disposal facilities have been put in place; 
and 
 
(b) 
 each Sub-project has been subject to an adequate environmental and 
land acquisition screening and evaluation process in accordance with environmental, 
resettlement and social safeguards set forth in the EMF and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework. 
7. 
No Sub-project involving involuntary resettlement of local population shall be 
carried out under the Project.     
Mid-Term Review, Project Monitoring and Evaluation
8. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate project performance on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30, 2009,  a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to the preceding sub-paragraph (a), on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph (b), and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of 
the 
said 
report 
and 
the 
Bank’s 
views 
on 
the 
matter.
 
