CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7380-PAK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 5, 2006  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7380-PAK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 5, 2006, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN acting by its President (the “Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”). The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(the “Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (the “Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
the Commitment Charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.01 of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth 
anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter; subject in either case to any waiver of a portion of 
such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
- 2 -
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
- 3 -
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that the Ordinance has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration is that the event specified in Section 4.01 
of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI  -  REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, 
Economic Affairs Division, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, or any 
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that 
Division. 
- 4 -
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics  
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Cable Address:  
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC 
  
 
ECDIV-05-634  
 
(9251) 9205971 
 
Islamabad 
 
(9251) 9210734 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable Address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Khalid Saeed 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Abid Hasan 
 
Actiing Country Director 
Pakistan 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the delivery and effectiveness of urban 
services in Punjab. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Support for TMAs - Capacity and Development Grants
Provision of grants to TMAs: 
 
(a) 
for the carrying out of capacity enhancement schemes in such areas as 
urban planning, financial management, investment planning, operation and maintenance 
and performance management; and 
 
(b) 
for the carrying out of infrastructure development schemes in such areas 
as water supply, sewerage, drainage, solid waste management, street cleaning, roads, 
street lighting, parks and fire-fighting. 
 
Part 2: Support for Other Institutions - Capacity Building and Other Activities
Enhancing of: 
 
(a)  
LG&RDD’s capacity to oversee local government activities, among 
other things, through: (i) the identification of a structure consistent with its mandate 
under the Ordinance to ensure optimal performance, and the induction of key staff 
initially needed for this purpose; and (ii) the establishment of a computerized monitoring 
and evaluation system for assessing TMA performance and facilitating the 
implementation of the Ordinance. 
 
(b)  
PMDFC’s capacity to fulfill its mandate, among other things, through:  
(i) the provision of staff,  training and technical assistance for purposes of appraising and 
monitoring grants made to TMAs; (ii) the provision of technical assistance for purposes 
of assisting TMAs in designing, implementing, supervising and operating capacity 
enhancement and infrastructure development schemes financed under such grants; and 
(iii) the development of a monitoring and evaluation system for assessing TMA 
performance in carrying out schemes financed under such grants; and  
 
(c)  
P&DD’s capacity to coordinate and implement cultural heritage- and 
other urban-related activities, among other things, through: (i) the induction of key staff 
and the provision of staff training; (ii) the rationalizing of the mandate and structure of 
institutions involved in heritage asset management; (iii) the proposing of changes to 
- 6 -
legislation to improve regulation; and (iv) the carrying out of a pilot scheme within the 
walled city of Lahore.   
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing and General Implementation Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the 
Borrower’s on-lending policy, and under the same terms and conditions as shall have 
been received from the Bank.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Schedule to the Project Agreement, the Operations 
Manual, the Financial Manual and the Environment and Social Framework.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall or shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed 
with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall or shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(a) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
or shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part 
of the Project Report, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
previous calendar quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General 
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal 
- 8 -
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) 
Goods, 
Works 
and 
Consultants’ Services: 
 
(a) for Parts 1(a) and 2 
of the Project; and 
 
(b) for Part 1(b) of the 
Project 
48,875,000 
 
 
100%  
 
85% 
(2) Incremental Operating 
and Administrative costs*
1,000,000 
100% 
- 9 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(3) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(4) Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate 
Collars 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.08(c) of 
this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000 
 
*For purposes of this Agreement, the term “Incremental Operating and Administrative 
Costs” includes the salaries, allowances and other emoluments of LG&RDD, PMDFC 
and P&DD staff appointed to posts created after June 30, 2004, for the purposes of the 
Project, the operation and maintenance and/or rental costs of vehicles, equipment and 
office premises acquired and used for the purposes of the Project, bank charges and the 
costs of advertising in the media for bids and other purposes of the Project. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2005, for Eligible 
Expenditures.  
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
- 10 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2014  
 
through September 15, 2025 
 
4.17% 
On March 15, 2026 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
- 11 - 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 12 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Capacity Grant” means financing provided on a non-reimbursable basis under  
Part 1(a) of the Project as described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement on the terms 
and conditions, including eligibility criteria, set out for such financing in the 
Operations Manual. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“Development Grant” means financing provided on a non-reimbursable basis under 
Part 1(b) of the Project as described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement on the terms 
and conditions, including eligibility criteria, set out for such financing in the 
Operations Manual. 
 
5. 
“Environment and Social Framework” means the Project Implementing Entity’s 
environment and social framework for the Project, dated November 2005, as the 
same shall be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“Financial Manual” means PMDFC’s financial manual for the Project, dated 
February 2006, as the same shall be amended from time to time in agreement with 
the Bank. 
 
7. 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, beginning July 1 of a calendar year and 
ending June 30 of the following calendar year. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
9. 
“LG&RDD” means the Local Government & Rural Development Department of 
the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
10. “Operations Manual” means PMDFC’s operations manual for the Project, dated 
March 2005, as the same shall be amended from time to time in agreement with the 
Bank. 
 
11. “Ordinance” 
means 
the 
Punjab 
Local 
Government 
Ordinance, 
2001,  
 as amended from time to time. 
 
- 13 - 
 
12. “P&DD” means the Planning and Development Department of the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
 
13.  “PMDFC” means the Punjab Municipal Development Fund Company, 
incorporated under the laws of the Borrower. 
 
14. “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
15. “Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan for 
the Project, dated March 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
16.  “Project Implementing Entity” means Punjab. 
 
17. “Punjab” means the Borrower’s Province of Punjab.  
 
18. “TMA” means a Tehsil/Town Municipal Administration, a sub-district level local 
government body established under the Ordinance.  
 
