CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7406-PA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Road Maintenance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 13, 2006  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7406-PA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 13, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy four million Dollars, 
($74,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
- 2 -
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. (a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOPC, in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The UPGP’s Regulation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the UPGP to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
- 3 -
(b) 
The Borrower, through MOPC, has failed to perform any of the IGAP 
Actions as listed in the Operational Manual. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower has taken any action or has adopted any policy so as to 
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of 
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement 
and/or have the effect of materially reversing the objective of the Project. 
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any 
of the events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
expire on February 24, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
(Ministerio de Hacienda)
Chile 128 
Asunción, Paraguay 
Facsimile: 595 (21) 448-283  
 
6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at Asunción, Republic of Paraguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
By /s/ Ernst Bergen 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to establish a sustainable road management strategy 
that ensures the upgrading and maintenance of the national road network, through, inter 
alia, the strengthening of the institutional capacity of MOPC, the promotion of efficient 
planning and adequate resource allocation for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the 
road network, and the improvement of access of excluded rural communities to the 
primary paved road network in selected Departments. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to the modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time, to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1.
Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Strengthening of MOPC’s institutional capacity in the areas of budget 
management, project programming, road conservation, monitoring and evaluation, and 
Project reporting through, inter alia: (i) improvement of the legal framework of the road 
sector and road classification; (ii) creation of a strategic planning unit within MOPC, and 
provision of technical assistance to such unit; (iii) implementation of a traffic counting 
system; and (iv) provision of training on procurement and contract monitoring. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening of MOPC’s institutional capacity in the areas of budget 
preparation and execution through, inter alia: (i) development of a result-based 
management and budget-execution monitoring system; (ii) development and 
implementation of an automated works certification and payment system; and (iii) 
strengthening of MOPC’s budget formulation process. 
 
(c) 
(i) Strengthening of MOPC’s institutional capacity in the areas of 
environment and social management, works’ supervision, and management of GMANS 
Contracts so as to enhance MOPC’s monitoring, supervision and implementation of the 
works to be financed under the Project; (ii) strengthening of the management of road 
improvement and maintenance contracts; (iii) updating of the pavement management 
system and road inventory; and (iv) development and implementation of a 
communications strategy on road maintenance. 
 
(d) 
Strengthening of MOPC’s institutional capacity in the areas of monitoring 
and evaluation to set up adequate base lines and mechanisms to follow-up outcome and 
impact indicators through, inter alia: (i) measuring of vehicle operating costs; (ii) 
carrying out of socioeconomic impact surveys and users’ satisfaction surveys, baseline 
establishment and monitoring; and (iii) implementation of the Indigenous People’s Plan, 
the Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Framework, the Resettlement 
Action Plan, the Road Sector Strategy and the IGAP.  
 
- 6 -
Part 2.
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of the Paved Road Network
(a) 
(i) Carrying out, under the terms of four (4) GMANS Contracts listed in 
the Operational Manual, of rehabilitation works (such as base reconstruction, resurfacing, 
asphalt concrete overlaying, road safety works, vertical and horizontal signaling) and 
routine maintenance works for approximately 968 kilometers of the national paved road 
network (in the aggregate); and (ii) carrying out of a training program on performance-
based contract preparation and monitoring for MOPC staff. 
 
(b) 
Development and implementation of the Toll System Optimization Master 
Plan, including the carrying out of studies for the diagnosis of the current toll system and 
the implementation of adequate equipment for toll posts.  
 
Part 3.
Improvement and Maintenance of the Unpaved Road Network
(a) 
Carrying out of rehabilitation and conservation works of the unpaved road 
sections listed in the Operational Manual, in the Departments of Caaguazu, San Pedro 
and Caazapa.  
 
(b) 
(i) Strengthening of general infrastructure and systems of MOPC’s district 
offices, including the provision of training to MOPC staff on road management and 
contracting of maintenance works; and (ii) provision of training to selected regional and 
local governments’ staff (in the Departments of Caaguazu, San Pedro and Caazapa) on 
road management and contracting of maintenance works. 
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
A.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through MOPC, shall carry out the Project in accordance with: 
(a) 
the provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual), said manual to 
include, inter alia: (i) the list of GMANS Contracts and road sections under Part 3 of the 
Project; (ii) the institutional and administrative structure of the UPGP and its functions 
and responsibilities; (iii) the Project’s chart of accounts, internal controls, and budgeting, 
accounting and financial reporting systems; (iv) the format of the annual financial 
statements and semi-annual un-audited interim financial reports referred to in Section II. 
B.1 (b) and B.2 of this Schedule, respectively; (v) the terms of reference for carrying out 
the Project audits under Section II.B.3 of this Schedule; (vi) the Project’s flow of funds 
structure; (vii) the Project administrative and procurement procedures; (viii) the Project’s 
standard bidding documents for GMANS Contracts under Part 2 of the Project and the 
road rehabilitation works under Part 3 of the Project (which shall include a provision 
whereby the contractors must comply with the pertinent provisions of the Environmental 
Management Plan, the Resettlement Framework and Resettlement Action Plan, and the 
Indigenous Peoples’ Plan; (ix) the Project indicators; (x) the provisions of the 
Environmental Management Plan, the Indigenous Peoples’ Plan, the Resettlement 
Framework and Resettlement Action Plan, the Road Sector Strategy and the IGAP; and 
(xi) the IGAP Actions.  
(b) 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual, the 
Environmental Management Plan, the Indigenous Peoples’ Plan, the Resettlement 
Framework, the Resettlement Action Plan, the Road Sector Strategy, the IGAP, and those 
of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall maintain at all times during Project 
implementation a team within MOPC (the UPGP) acceptable to the Bank, which shall be 
responsible for overall planning, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project, and which shall have, inter alia, the responsibility of coordinating the 
preparation of financial statements and reports, maintenance of the records and accounts 
referred to in Section II.B of this Schedule, and to coordinate the procurement of goods, 
works and/or services under the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall: 
 
- 8 -
(i) 
ensure that the UPGP is at all times staffed with at least a Project 
coordinator and with staff (to be described in the Operational 
Manual), all with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(ii) 
ensure that the UPGP is provided with adequate facilities, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out its responsibilities. 
3. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall ensure, and cause any contractor to ensure, 
that any road to be maintained under a GMANS Contract and/or rehabilitated or 
maintained under Part 3 of the Project has not been previously financed by a Bank loan, 
is not being financed by a Bank loan, and/or is not being financed with the Borrower’s 
funds under any Bank project.  
4. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall ensure and cause any contractor to ensure, 
that any works to be carried out under the Project do not involve the use or potential 
pollution of International Waterways. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through MOPC (UPGP), shall: (a) not later than December 31 of 
each year of Project implementation (starting in the year 2006), prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a Project implementation plan, acceptable to the Bank, to be carried out during the 
calendar year following the date of presentation of said plan, which plan shall include, 
inter alia, the Project activities to be carried out during said given year and the 
counterpart fund allocation in respect of said Project activities; and (b) thereafter, 
implement and/or cause to be implemented each of said Project implementation plans in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each 
calendar year of Project implementation (starting in the year 2008), carry out an annual 
road and traffic survey in respect of said roads to be benefited under the Project under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (b) not later than six months after the carrying 
out of each of said annual surveys, prepare a report of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the outcome of each of said surveys; and (c) 
immediately thereafter, furnish to the Bank the pertinent reports mentioned in (b) herein. 
 
7. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOPC (UPGP), shall: (i) not later than six 
calendar months after the Effective Date, prepare (under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank) and approve baseline data to enable the Borrower to comply with the 
obligation set forth in Section II.A.1 of this Schedule; and (ii) immediately thereafter, 
assess, on an ongoing basis, the Project impact in accordance with the Project indicators 
mentioned in Section II.A.1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) herein, the Borrower, 
through the MOPC (UPGP), shall: (i) not later than December 31, 2009: (A) carry out a 
- 9 -
mid-term impact assessment of the Project in accordance with said Project indicators, 
which assessment shall take into account the variables related to enhanced road 
conditions, the transport costs, production opportunities and job generation; and (B) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a report, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting the results of 
said mid-term assessment; and (ii) not later than December 31, 2012: (A) carry out a final 
impact assessment of the Project in accordance with said Project indicators, which final 
assessment shall also take into account the same variables mentioned in (b) (i) (A) herein; 
and (B) prepare and furnish to the Bank, a report, acceptable to the Bank, reflecting the 
results of said final impact assessment. 
 
8. 
The Borrower, through MOPC shall, not later than six months after the Effective 
Date, create and thereafter maintain, throughout each calendar year of Project 
implementation, a specific budget line entry in the relevant annual budget in order to 
keep track of the corresponding expenditures incurred during Project implementation 
against quarterly budget allocation of funds. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOPC (UPGP), shall monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report (starting with the Project Report due in June 30, 2007, and 
subsequently, with the Project Reports due on December 30 and June 30 of each year of 
Project implementation).  
 
(b) 
Each Project Report shall also include: (i) the interim un-audited financial 
reports referred to in Section II. B.2 of this Schedule; (ii) a physical progress report in 
respect of Project implementation; (iii) procurement status reports, all in accordance with 
the format set forth in the Operational Manual; and (iv) a progress report stating the 
status of implementation and compliance by the Borrower, through MOPC, of the IGAP 
and the IGAP Actions. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section II.A.1 (b) above, the 
Borrower, through MOPC, shall hold annual reviews with the Bank and MH with the 
purpose of exchanging views and updating the IGAP. 
2. 
The Borrower, through MOPC (UPGP), shall review with the Bank not later than 
one month after the submission of each Project Report during Project implementation 
(starting in the year 2007), the pertinent Project Reports, and thereafter, take and/or cause 
to be taken, as the case may be, all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
- 10 -
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said Project Reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished by the Borrower, through MOPC, to the Bank not later than six months after 
the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower, through MOPC shall: (a) maintain a financial management system; 
and (b) prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Section II.A of this Schedule, the 
Borrower, through MOPC (DCP), shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of each 
Project Report, interim semi-annual un-audited financial reports for the Project covering 
the pertinent semester, in form and substance as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MOPC, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period, including any such other information 
concerning said audited financial statements and such auditors, as the Bank may from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
4. 
Without limitations on the provisions of Section 5.11 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall enable the Bank representatives to carry out supervision visits to the 
Borrower’s territory and grant access to the Project records and accounts at least every 
four months during Project implementation, with the objective of reviewing, inter alia,
the status of its financial management and accounting system, hold meetings with internal 
and external auditors, and confirm that adequate staffing of the UPGP and the DCP is 
maintained. 
 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods, works and non-consultant services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
- 11 -
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the 
following additional procedures:   
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 
and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
- 12 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for 
goods, works procured under International Competitive Bidding, and Non-Consultant 
Services estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (b) the first two contracts 
for goods, works and Non-Consultant Services to be procured under National 
Competitive Bidding and Shopping regardless of their cost; (c) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more; (d) each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (e) each contract for the employment of consultants 
selected on a sole-source basis; and (f) the first two contracts for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm or individual consultants on the basis of Least Cost Selection and 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications regardless of their cost.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1.
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
applicable provisions of the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 1, 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
- 13 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in US$) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Goods (other than non-
durable goods as covered 
under Category (4) below), 
consultants’ services 
 
2,540,000
70%
(2) Works (including Non-
Consultant Services) 
 
52,400,000 
70% 
(3) Consultants’ Services 
(including 
audits) 
and 
Training 
 
9,580,000
70%
(4) Operating Costs 
               400,000 
70% 
(5) Unallocated 
            9,080,000 
 
TOTAL  
          74,000,000 
 
For purposes of this table: 
 
(a)  
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower, as approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual 
budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of 
trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, and rental of training 
facilities and equipment under Part 1 of the Project; and 
(b)  
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures, 
based on an annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been 
incurred by the Borrower absent the Project. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
under Categories (2), (3) and (4) made prior to this date but on or after June 12, 2006 (but 
in no case more than twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2011 
 
Through October 15, 2028 
 
2.78% 
On April 15, 2029 
2.70% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
- 15 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals 
made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
 
- 16 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Consultant 
Guidelines” 
means 
the 
“Guidelines: 
Selection 
and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 
2004. 
 
(c) 
“DCP” means the Dirección de Crédito Público, Viceministerio de 
Administración y Finanzas del MOPC, the multilateral aid management directorate 
organized within MOPC (as hereinafter defined). 
 
(d) 
“Department” means a Borrower’s political subdivision as referred to in 
the Borrower’s Constitution. 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, dated March 26, 2006 
(Plan de Gestión Ambiental), duly adopted by the Borrower as part of the Operational 
Manual (as hereinafter defined), which sets out the environmental protection measures in 
respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
the implementation of said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
(f) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
(g) 
“GMANS Contract” means a multi-year contract under Part 2 of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Bank, entered into by MOPC with a private sector contractor, 
which contract obligates the private sector contractor to undertake all phases of road 
rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single package, from design and programming 
of the works, through the execution of such works, with respect to an identified portion of 
the corresponding national road network. 
 
(h) 
“IGAP” or “Improved Governance Framework and Project Action Plan” 
means the Borrower’s plan, dated July 10, 2006, as agreed with the Bank, which sets 
forth the measures and actions to be taken during implementation of the Project with 
respect to disclosure, civil society oversight, collusion mitigation, mitigation of forgery 
and fraud, complaints handling and sanctions and remedies. 
 
(i) 
“IGAP Actions” means a set of specific actions to be carried out by the 
Borrower in accordance with the IGAP, and contained in Section VI.1 of the Operational 
Manual. 
 
- 17 -
(j) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means the indigenous peoples recognized as such by 
the Borrower’s Instituto Nacional del Indígena as eligible to benefit from the 
constitutional and other legal protection as indigenous peoples. 
 
(k) 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Plan” means the indigenous peoples plan (Plan para 
los Pueblos Indígenas) dated March 26, 2006, prepared in consultations with Indigenous 
Peoples for the carrying out of activities under the Project, and which is part of the 
Operational Manual. 
 
(l) 
“International Waterways” means: (i) any river, canal, lake, or similar 
body of water that forms a boundary between, or any river or body of surface water that 
flows through, two or more countries; (ii) any tributary or other body of surface water 
that is a component of any waterway described in (i) herein; and (iii) any bay, gulf, strait, 
or channel bounded by two or more countries or, if within one country, recognized as 
necessary channel of communication between the open sea and other countries, and any 
river flowing into such waters. 
 
(m) 
“MH” means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance. 
 
(n) 
“MOPC” means Ministerio de Obras Públicas y Comunicaciones, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Communications. 
 
(o) 
“Non-Consultant Services” means expenditures incurred by MOPC to 
finance the provision of services under the Project, which services will be bid and 
contracted on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs. 
 
(p) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower. 
 
(q) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(r) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the 
Project, dated May 6, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(s) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means each of the plans, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared or to be prepared by the Borrower for Parts 2 and 3 of the Project which 
set out the principles and procedures that will govern land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation measures under said Parts of the Project. 
 
- 18 -
(t) 
“Resettlement Framework” means Marco para Asistencia para el 
Traslado de Ocupaciones Ilegales de la Franja de Dominio, the policy framework for 
resettlement, dated March 26, 2006, prepared by the Borrower for Parts 2 and 3 of the 
Project, which sets out the policies and procedures that shall apply to the preparation and 
carrying out of any Resettlement Action Plan that may be required under the Project. 
 
(u) 
“Road Sector Strategy” means the Borrower’s document dated July 7, 
2006, as agreed with the Bank, setting forth the Borrower’s strategy to develop and 
strengthen its national road sector. 
(v) 
“Toll System Optimization Master Plan” means the Borrower’s plan to be 
developed and implemented under Part 2 (b) of the Project, establishing, inter alia, which 
toll booths shall be relocated under the Project, what sequencing shall be used for two-
way tolls’ collection, and the quality of investments necessary for the improvement of 
systems and infrastructure under the Project. 
 
(w) 
“UPGP” means Unidad de Preparación, Gestión y Mejoramiento de la 
Red Vial, a Project preparation and coordination unit created by the UPGP’s Legislation 
(as hereinafter defined), organized within MOPC, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(x) 
“UPGP’s Regulation” means MOPC’s Ministerial Resolution No. 523 of 
September 9, 2004 (as amended on August 24, 2005 by MOPC’s Ministerial Resolution 
No. 593). 
 
