CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4818 - IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Karnataka Municipal Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 2, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
- 2 -
LOAN NUMBER 4818 - IN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 2006, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the State of Karnataka (Karnataka) with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to 
Karnataka, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
(C) 
Karnataka has issued Government Order UDD 56, PRJ 2005, dated 
September 13, 2005 (Karnataka Government Order UDD 56), giving its sanction for the 
Project and providing details of the legal and institutional framework governing its 
implementation;  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Karnataka 
(the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
- 2 -
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“BMA” means Bangalore Metropolitan Area, as defined in the Bangalore 
Water Supply and Sewerage Board Act, 1964, as amended, and the Karnataka 
Government Order No. UDD 27 MNI 2000, dated December 12, 2003, including 
Bommanahallil, Byatarayanpura, Dasarahalli, Krishnarrajapuram, Mahadevapura, 
Rajarrajeshwarinagar, Yelahanka, and Kengeri; 
(b) 
“BMP” means Bangalore Mahanagara Palike, an urban local body 
constituted under the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, or any successor 
thereto; 
(c) 
“BMP PIU” means the Bangalore Mahanagara Palike Project 
Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(d) 
“BWSSB” means the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, a 
statutory board incorporated under the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1964, 
as amended; 
(e) 
“BWSSB PMU” means the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage 
Board Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 
- 3 -
(f) 
“CIP” means the Capital Investment Plan prepared by an urban local 
body, approved by Karnataka, and referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 
(g) 
“DMA” or “Department of Municipal Administration” means the 
Department of Municipal Administration of Karnataka; 
(h) 
“DTP” or “Directorate of Town Planning” means the Directorate of 
Town Planning of Karnataka;  
(i) 
“EC” means the Empowered Committee referred to in paragraph 1(a) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(j) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Environmental 
Management 
Plan” 
means 
the 
environmental 
management plan adopted by each of the following: (i) an urban local body in carrying 
out its activities under Part B of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 17 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement; (ii) BMP in carrying out activities under Part C.1 of the 
Project, and referred to in paragraph 18 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and (iii) 
BWSSB in carrying out activities under Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project and referred to in 
paragraph 19 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; as each of the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank; 
(m) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(n) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s and Karnataka’s fiscal year, 
beginning on April 1 of any calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
 (o) 
“Karnataka Government Order UDD 56” means the Karnataka 
Government Order referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to said Order; 
(p) 
“Karnataka” means the State of Karnataka, a state of India, or any 
successor thereto; 
(q) 
“KUIDFC” means Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and 
Finance Corporation, a state-owned corporation, established in 1993 and registered and 
operating under the Companies Act 1956, of the Borrower; 
- 4 -
(r) 
“KMRP Cell” means the Karnataka Municipal Reform Project Cell 
referred to in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(s) 
“MOA” means the Memorandum of Agreement executed, or to be 
executed, as the case may be, between the Government of Karnataka, KUIDFC, and each 
ULB carrying out a Subproject, and referred to in paragraph 8(a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; 
(t) 
“Municipal Reform Cell” means the cell established in the Directorate of 
Municipal Administration and referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 
(u) 
“Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual, adopted by each of 
KUIDFC, BMP, and BWSSB, and referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and the term includes any 
schedules or annexes to the Operations Manual; 
 
(v) 
“Procurement Plan” means the  procurement plan of Karnataka, dated 
February 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(w) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Karnataka of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;  
(x) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
that sets forth the operational guidelines and actions to be undertaken by BMP and 
BWSSB for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project, and referred 
to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(y) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(z) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the Resettlement Action 
Plan,  adopted by each of the following: (i) an urban local body in carrying out activities 
under Part B of the Project and referred to in paragraph 17 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; (ii) BMP in carrying out activities under Part C.1 of the Project and referred 
to in paragraph 18 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and (iii) BWSSB in carrying 
out activities under Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project and referred to in  
paragraph 19 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; as the same may be revised from 
time to time with the prior approval of the Bank, and the term includes any schedules or 
annexes to the said Plan; 
- 5 -
(aa) 
 “SEMF” means the Social and Environment Management Framework 
adopted by Karnataka on April 30, 2004, on behalf of each of KUIDFC, BMP, and 
BWSSB, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the 
Bank, and the term includes any schedules or annexes to the said Framework; 
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(cc) 
“Subgrant” means a Subgrant made or proposed to be made available by 
Karnataka through KUIDFC out of the proceeds of the Loan to an eligible ULB for the 
carrying out of a Subproject under Part B of the Project; 
(dd) 
“Subloan” means a Subloan made or proposed to be made available by 
Karnataka through KUIDFC out of the proceeds of the Loan to an eligible ULB for the 
carrying out of a Subproject under Part B of the Project; 
(ee) 
“Subproject” means a Subproject meeting the criteria set forth in the 
Operations Manual and the Annex of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and to be 
carried out by a ULB utilizing, inter alia, the proceeds of a Subgrant or Subloan, or a 
combination thereof;  
(ff) 
“UDD” means the Urban Development Department of Karnataka; and 
(gg) 
“ULB” means urban local body, an administrative subdivision of 
Karnataka, established pursuant to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, and 
as set forth in the Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964, as may be amended from time to 
time. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred sixteen million Dollars ($216,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts paid 
(or if the Bank shall so agree to be paid) by Karnataka through KUIDFC, on account of 
withdrawals made by KUIDFC under a Subloan or Subgrant, or a combination thereof, 
under Part B of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for a Subproject in respect of which withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services, and incremental operating costs 
required for Parts A, C, and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
- 6 -
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2012, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
- 7 -
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Karnataka to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Karnataka therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Karnataka to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
Karnataka in accordance with the Borrower’s arrangements for developmental assistance 
to its states. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
- 8 -
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Karnataka 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
- 9 -
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out;  
(b) 
Karnataka Government Order UDD 56, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of Karnataka to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; 
(c) 
as a result of events that have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
Karnataka will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(d) 
Karnataka shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an event specified in paragraphs (a)  
or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Karnataka, and is legally binding upon Karnataka in accordance with its terms.  
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Karnataka, and is legally binding upon Karnataka in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
- 10 - 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
 
953-31-66175   
91-11-2309-2511 
 
New Delhi 
FINE IN  
91-11-2309-2477 
 
91-11-2309-3133 
 
For the Bank: 
 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)  
202-477-6391  
   
- 11 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India,  as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Madhusudan Prasad 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Michael F. Carter 
Country Director, India 
- 12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Part A: General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
      % of 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
 Expenditures 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods and services 
 
 
 
under Part A of  
 
the Project 
22,740,000 
80% 
 
(2) 
Subloans and Subgrants 
 
under Part B of the Project 
72,000,000 
80% 
 
(3) 
 Works, goods, services 
 
training, and incremental 
 
operating costs under 
 
Part C.1, C.2(b), C.2(c)  
 
and C.3 of the Project 
63,200,000 
80% 
(4) 
 Works, goods, services, 
under Parts C.2(a) of 
the Project 
48,520,000 
80% 
 
(5) 
Goods, services, training, 
and incremental operating 
 
costs under Parts A.1, A.3, 
 
A.4, B, and D.1  
 
of the Project 
9,000,000 
80% 
 
(6) 
Front End Fee 
540,000 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
216,000,000
- 13 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “incremental operating costs” means 
the incremental costs of: maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles; office rental 
and expenses; hiring of vehicles; salaries of Project staff other than public officials; and 
travel and other allowances, incurred by: (a) DMA through the DMA Cell in carrying out 
Parts A.1, A.3, and A.4  of the Project; (b) BWSSB, in carrying out Part C.2 of the 
Project; or (c) KUIDFC, in carrying out Parts B and D.1 of the Project.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000 may be made 
in respect of categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Part on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 1, 2003. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) consultants’ services 
under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, in the case of 
consulting firms, and $100,000 equivalent per contract, in the case of individual 
consultants; (c) Subloans or Subgrants under Part B of the Project; (d) incremental 
operating costs; and (e) training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other relevant 
information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit, or shall 
cause Karnataka to submit, to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request. 
Part B: Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
- 14 - 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.3. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that it is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
- 15 - 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 16 - 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements 
For the purposes of this Annex:  
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $20,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000  until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed $40,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts that in the aggregate do not exceed the said Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
- 17 - 
 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
- 18 - 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 
of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
- 19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Karnataka in improving the delivery of 
urban services through enhancing the quality of urban infrastructure, and strengthening 
the ULB- and state-level institutional and financial frameworks for the delivery of urban 
services. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Institutional Development
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the UDD and Departments of 
Municipal Administration and Town Planning to undertake basic urban planning and 
management functions, including: 
1. 
Improving the management capacity of, and information flow to, about 170 ULBs, 
through:  
(a) 
the computerization of core municipal functions, including property tax 
management, budgeting, accounting and auditing functions, grievance redressal 
procedures, and birth and death registration; and  
(b) 
the strengthening of tax assessment and recovery, performance 
monitoring, and reporting systems;  
through the provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of computer hardware 
and software. 
2. 
Improving land management functions in the DTP relating to decentralized 
planning and management, including:  
 
(a)  
development of up-to-date, geo-referenced, and large-scale (1:2000) 
mapping for selected urban areas in Karnataka using aerial photography and 
photogrammetry; establishment of about 2,300 Survey Control Points, through the 
provision of equipment and technical advisory services; 
 
(b) 
support to the DTP, including capacity building activities, and the 
carrying out of studies on: (i) rationalizing and the devolution of the planning and 
management of urban development; and (ii) capacity building in the context of 
decentralized planning, through the provision of equipment and technical advisory 
services. 
- 20 - 
 
3. 
Development and implementation of new budgeting and accounting systems to 
support double-entry, accrual-based accounting systems in about 170 ULBs, including 
staff training related thereto, and the carrying out of external audits of said systems, 
through the provision of technical advisory services, and computer hardware and software, 
and the financing for said external audits. 
4. 
Carrying out of capacity building activities for ULBs relating to their service 
delivery and financial management functions, including the carrying out of a Capacity 
Enhancement Needs Assessment to identify knowledge and skills for the design and 
implementation of the urban reform agenda of Karnataka and ULBs, through the provision 
of technical advisory services, training, and workshops. 
5. 
Provision of technical advisory services and capacity building activities, including 
workshops and training, for staff of the UDD, KUIDFC, and DMA, and the carrying out 
of studies on: (a) a state urban finance framework; (b) a KUIDFC business model; and (c) 
the development of operational manuals for municipal functions.  
Part B: ULB Investment Support
Financing of Subprojects by Karnataka to improve the delivery of urban services 
through the provision of Subloans or Subgrants, or a combination thereof, to eligible 
ULBs.  
Part C: Bangalore Development
1. 
 Rehabilitation of, and traffic management improvements to, about 140 kilometers 
of selected portions of the BMP city road network, including:   
(a) 
pavement strengthening;  
(b) 
footpath and drainage works;  
(c) 
upgrading or installation of street lighting, traffic signage and markings, 
and road fixtures;  
(d) 
improvements to intersections and public transport terminals; and  
(e) 
utility relocation;  
through the provision of: civil works; technical advisory assistance for project preparation; 
training; project management; construction supervision, system development and 
implementation; logistical support, social rehabilitation and environmental mitigation or 
enhancement measures; and the acquisition of equipment. 
 
- 21 - 
 
2. 
Carrying out of an underground drainage program for the BMA, including:  
(a) 
the construction of a sanitary sewerage system for the BMA, including the 
construction of: about 1,750 kilometers of main and trunk sewers;  branch sewers and 
laterals; about 1,200,000 sewer house connections; three pumping stations located in 
Dasarahalli, Mahadevpura, and Yelahanka;  and five sewage treatment plants, located in 
Yelahanka, Kengeri, and Krishnarajapura, and the provision of related sewer maintenance 
equipment;  
 
(b) 
the restoration of about 2,000 km of urban roads in the BMA that are 
impacted by the physical works carried out under Part C.2(a) of the Project; and 
(c) 
the enhancement of the institutional capacity of BWSSB through the 
provision of technical advisory assistance, and financing for the incremental operating 
costs incurred by BWSSB attributed to the carrying out of Parts C.2(a) and C.2(b) of the 
Project. 
3. 
Carrying out of a program aimed at providing access to sanitation facilities by 
poor communities in the BMA through the construction of about 10,000 individual 
household and community latrines, and the provision of technical assistance involving, 
inter alia, the participation of community-based and non-governmental organizations and 
other strategies designed to increase the urban poor population’s awareness of, and access 
to, water and sanitation facilities.  
Part D: Project Management
1. 
Establishment and operationalization of a project development advisory facility 
within KUIDFC for the purposes of:  
(a)   
providing Subproject preparation technical assistance to ULBs, including: 
the carrying out of: (i) CIP studies; and (ii) technical, financial, economic, environmental 
and social assessments; all for the preparation by ULBs of Subprojects;  
(b) 
providing public dissemination of, ULBs for activities carried out under 
Part B of the Project;  
(c) 
the preparation of Subproject bid documents;  
(d) 
support to ULBs for Subproject management and supervision; and 
(e)         support to improve ULB revenue and operational performance; 
through the provision of technical advisory services and workshops, and financing of the 
incremental operating costs of KUIDFC. 
- 22 - 
 
2. 
Project implementation support to Project management teams through the 
provision of office equipment and the financing of incremental operating costs to:  (a) 
KUIDFC, attributed to the carrying out of Parts B and D.1 of the Project; and (b) the 
Municipal Reform Cell, attributed to the carrying out of Parts A.1, A.3, and A.4 of the 
Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2011. 
- 23 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
 
 
 
   Payment of Principal 
 
________________ 
 
 
 
  (Expressed in Dollars)* 
 
October 15, 2011 
5,265,000 
 
April 15, 2012 
5,375,000 
 
October 15, 2012 
5,485,000 
 
April 15, 2013 
5,600,000 
 
October 15, 2013 
5,715,000 
 
April 15, 2014 
5,835,000 
 
October 15, 2014 
5,955,000 
 
April 15, 2015 
6,080,000 
 
October 15, 2015 
6,205,000 
 
April 15, 2016 
6,335,000 
 
October 15, 2016 
6,465,000 
 
April 15, 2017 
6,600,000 
 
October 15, 2017 
6,735,000 
 
April 15, 2018 
6,875,000 
 
October 15, 2018 
7,015,000 
 
April 15, 2019 
7,160,000 
 
October 15, 2019 
7,310,000 
 
April 15, 2020 
7,460,000 
 
October 15, 2020 
7,615,000 
 
April 15, 2021 
7,775,000 
 
October 15, 2021 
7,935,000 
 
April 15, 2022 
8,100,000 
 
October 15, 2022 
8,265,000 
 
April 15, 2023 
8,435,000 
 
October 15, 2023 
8,610,000 
 
April 15, 2024 
8,790,000 
 
October 15, 2024 
8,970,000 
 
April 15, 2025 
9,155,000 
 
October 15, 2025 
9,345,000 
 
April 15, 2026 
9,535,000 
 
*The figures in this column represent the amounts in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
