CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7344-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Bahia Poor Urban Areas Integrated Development Project – Viver Melhor II) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
Dated April 7, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7344-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 2006, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF 
BAHIA (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Borrower’s Bahia 
Poor Urban Areas Integrated Development Project – Viver Melhor II (Projeto de 
Desenvolvimento Integrado em Áreas Urbanas Carentes no Estado da Bahia – Viver 
Melhor II) as such project is described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), 
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, which is an integral part 
of the Borrower’s development strategy; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the words 
“corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
 
(a) 
“Commitment Letter” means the Termo de Adesão to be delivered by a 
Municipality to the Borrower undertaking to collaborate with SEDUR and CONDER in 
the development of a Subproject; 
 
(b) 
“CONDER” means Companhia de Desenvolvimento Urbano do Estado 
da Bahia, the Borrower’s Urban Development Company; 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means the Borrower’s assessment, 
dated April 14, 2005, of the Project environmental impacts, which identifies the existing 
environmental conditions and the potential direct and indirect environmental impacts 
from the carrying out of the Project, and recommends mitigation measures for each 
negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified positive 
impact; 
(f) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Ministry of Finance” means Ministério da Fazenda, the Guarantor’s 
Ministry of Finance; 
 
(h) 
"MIS" means the Project monitoring and information system referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Municipality” means the Municipalities of Salvador, Ilhéus, Itabuna, 
Feira de Santana, Juazeiro, Barreiras, Brumado, Teixeira de Freitas, and any other 
municipality in the Borrower’s territory that may be selected, with the agreement of the 
Bank, to benefit from the Project;  
 
(j) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(iii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
- 3 -
(k) 
“Participation Agreement” means any of the Convênios de Participação 
between CONDER (with the participation of SEDUR as the case may be) and either a 
Participating Municipality, a Participating Secretariat or a provider of public services in 
the Subproject area that provides for the participation of such entities in the carrying out 
of activities complementary to those under a Subproject, including operation and 
maintenance activities; 
(l) 
“Participating Municipality” means any Municipality that has entered 
into a Participation Agreement; 
(m) 
“Participating Secretariats” means the Borrower’s Secretariats of Labor 
and Social Protection, Public Security, Reduction of Poverty, Education, Health, and 
Urban Development, Planning, and Culture and Tourism; 
(n) 
“PMU” means the Project management unit referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
25, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period of implementation of the Project, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
implementation of the Project; 
(p) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(r) 
“Resettlement Framework” means the document dated April 14, 2005, 
issued by CONDER, specifying the population resettlement policies, planning principles, 
institutional arrangements, procurement arrangements and design criteria that shall apply to 
the preparation and carrying out of the action plans for the resettlement of population under 
Subprojects; 
(s) 
“Secretariat of National Treasury” means the Secretaria do Tesouro 
Nacional, the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National Treasury; 
(t) 
“SEDUR” means Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano, the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Urban Development; 
- 4 -
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
(v) 
“Subproject” means any project, selected in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual and approved by the Bank, to be carried out in poor 
communities of a Participating Municipality, and consisting of the activities described in 
Parts A and B of the Project; and 
(w) 
“Transfer Agreement” means any of the Termos de Cessão e 
Compromisso between CONDER and either a Participating Municipality or a public 
service provider that provides for the transfer of the facilities acquired, purchased or created 
by CONDER under a Subproject to the relevant Participating Municipality or public 
service provider that will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of such 
facilities. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SEDUR. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty-nine 
million two hundred ninety-six thousand Dollars ($49,296,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as well as in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2011, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that the Ministry of Finance has 
authorized the extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date 
authorized by the Ministry of Finance. 
- 5 -
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-
objection of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of National Treasury, request any of 
the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
- 6 -
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, including the Subprojects, through SEDUR (jointly with CONDER) and shall 
cause the Participating Municipalities to carry out Part C.2 (b) (ii) of the Project, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, environmental, 
administrative, financial, engineering, and integrated urban development practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause: 
(i) 
the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions 
and recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment 
and the Resettlement Framework, when applicable; 
(ii) 
the contractors that will carry out civil works under the Project to 
perform their construction work in accordance with the 
environmental practices set out in the manual issued by the 
- 7 -
Borrower on April 14, 2005, and incorporated into the 
Operational Manual; and 
(iii) 
the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), 
which shall contain the policies and procedures for the carrying 
out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including, inter 
alia: (A) the detailed criteria and procedures for selection and 
carrying 
out 
of 
Subprojects 
and 
the 
participation 
of 
Municipalities in 
the preparation 
and 
prioritization 
of 
Subprojects, including: (1) the delivery of the Commitment 
Letters; (2) the signing of Participation Agreements; (3) the 
preparation of a plan for Subproject implementation with the 
participation of the Participating Municipalities, Participating 
Secretariats and other stakeholders; (4) the coordination of the 
Subproject preparation process by CONDER with the 
participation of SEDUR; (5) the signing of an addendum to the 
Participation Agreements providing for the Subproject working 
plan; and (6) the signing of the Transfer Agreements; (B) the 
model forms of the Commitment Letters, the Participation 
Agreements and the Transfer Agreements; (C) the Project 
procurement and financial management requirements and 
procedures; (D) the indicators to be used for Project monitoring 
and evaluation; and (E) the functions, responsibilities, structure 
and key staff composition of the Project Steering Committee and 
PMU.  In case of any inconsistency between a provision of the 
Operational Manual and this Agreement, the provision of this 
Agreement will prevail.  
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, non-consultants’ services and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval.  
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Project implementation:  
(a) 
maintain, during Project implementation, a steering committee to be 
responsible for overall guidance with respect to Project execution (the Project Steering 
- 8 -
Committee), and a unit within SEDUR to be responsible for the general management of 
the Project (the PMU), such Project Steering Committee and PMU to have the 
composition, structure, responsibilities and functions as set out in the Operational 
Manual; 
(b) 
take the necessary administrative measures, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for the obligation of: (i) SEDUR to make 
available to CONDER the proceeds of the Loan and the Project counterpart funds 
whenever required by CONDER to carry out the Project as set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement; and (ii) CONDER to carry out the Project as set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, and to provide SEDUR with all assistance required by  SEDUR to comply with 
the Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement; 
(c) 
before initiating the carrying out of any Subproject, enter, through 
SEDUR, into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the relevant Participating 
Municipality providing for the transfer to such Municipality of the portion of the Loan 
proceeds allocated to finance the activities under Part C.2 (b) (ii) of the Project to be 
carried out by such Municipality, and the obligation of such Municipality to carry out 
such activities as set forth or referred to in this Agreement; and 
(d) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the Participation 
Agreements, the Transfer Agreements and the agreements involving the transfer of loan 
proceeds related to the Project in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
its rights under such agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall submit each Subproject to the Bank for 
approval before submitting any application for the withdrawal of Loan proceeds from the 
Loan Account or before disbursing funds from the Special Account for the purpose of 
financing expenditures under the relevant Subproject. 
(b) 
When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
and in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual, containing, 
inter alia: (i) a description of the Subproject and expenditures to be incurred therein; (ii) a 
detailed description of how the relevant Subproject meets the eligibility criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual; (iii) a plan for the administration, operation and maintenance 
of the proposed Subproject; (iv) evidence that the Borrower holds the corresponding 
environmental permits required for the execution of the works planned under the 
proposed Subproject; (v) an environmental management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for the Subproject, which shall be based on the Environmental Impact Assessment; (vi) 
when applicable, an action plan for resettlement of the population affected by the 
Subproject, to be prepared in accordance with the Resettlement Framework; and (vii) the 
- 9 -
drafts of the Participation Agreements to be entered into in connection with the proposed 
Subproject. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall carry out any Subproject in accordance with the 
terms and conditions approved by the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain a Project monitoring and information system in SEDUR, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the MIS), to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an on-going 
basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during 
Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review such report with the Bank promptly after its preparation, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
- 10 -
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, as part of the MIS, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited; 
and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
- 11 -
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank 
(the FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Loan has been duly registered by the 
Guarantor's Central Bank. 
- 12 -
Section 5.02. The date July 6, 2006, is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions  
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary (Secretário) of SEDUR is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C.  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano 
 
Av. Tancredo Neves, 450 - 34º Andar 
 
41820-020 Salvador, Bahia 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3116-5705 
 
- 13 -
With copy to: 
 
Companhia de Desenvolvimento Urbano 
 
do Estado da Bahia 
 
Av. Edgar Santos, 936 
 
40210-720 Salvador, Bahia 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3371-0856 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado da Bahia - SEFAZ 
Av. Luis Viana Filho, 2ª Avenida, 260 – CAB 
41746-900, Salvador, Bahia  
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-2408 
 
Secretaria do Planejamento do Estado da Bahia 
Av. Luis Viana Filho, 2ª Avenida, 250 – CAB 
41746-900, Salvador, Bahia  
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-3945 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Salvador, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
By /s/ Paulo Ganem Souto 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Goods and non-consultants’ 
4,406,720 
 
80% 
 
services 
 
(2) Works  
 
36,056,040 
 
54% 
 
(3) Consultants’ services 
8,710,000 
 
85% 
 
and training 
 
(4) Front-end fee 
123,240 
Amount due  
 
under Section  
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
under Section 
 
Rate Collars 
2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
_________ 
TOTAL 
49,296,000 
 
======== 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above on account 
of payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) in 
- 16 -
respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (2) set forth in paragraph 1 
above, in respect of any Subproject, unless: (i) the Borrower, through SEDUR, has 
provided the Bank with the application and related information for such Subproject that are 
required pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) based on the application 
and related information provided for such Subproject under Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement, the Bank has granted its written approval to such Subproject. 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works costing less than the equivalent 
of $5,000,000 per contract; (b) goods or non-consultants’ services costing less than the 
equivalent of $500,000 per contract; (c) consulting firms’ services costing less than the 
equivalent of $200,000 per contract; (d) individual consultants’ services; and (e) training. 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
- 17 -
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
- 18 -
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 19 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $4,900,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 20 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month  period following the date of 
such reports. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to reduce urban poverty in a sustainable manner in 
the poorest and most vulnerable sections of Salvador and certain other cities in the 
Borrower’s territory by providing access to basic services and improved housing and 
social support services.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Urban Infrastructure
Urban upgrading of informal settlements, through: (a) the carrying out of urban 
infrastructure investments, such as urban drainage, roads, street paving, water supply and 
sewerage, solid waste management, home improvement and replacement housing, with 
impacts within the targeted communities; (b) the carrying out of macro-level 
infrastructure works with impacts within and beyond the target communities, such as 
road links to enhance citywide mobility, macro-drainage works and establishment of 
green areas and parks; (c) development of serviced land delivery and low-cost housing 
alternatives for the poor; and (d) preparation of the engineering designs required for the 
works referred to in (a), (b) and (c) above, and provision of technical assistance for on-
site supervision and quality control of such works. 
Part B: Social Services
Provision of social services, including the physical facilities required therefor, 
consisting of: (a) strengthening of local community-based organizations, support to 
governmental institutions, non-governmental organizations and community-based 
organizations providing key social services to local residents, development of income and 
employment generation activities, provision of health and environmental education 
services, direct support to families’ survival strategies, promotion of, and support to, 
sport and cultural activities, and development of crime and violence prevention initiatives 
for enhanced security at local level; (b) refurbishment or construction of facilities and 
buildings required for the carrying out of such services, such as day-care centers, 
kindergartens, buildings for primary and secondary education classes and health care, and 
sport and professional training facilities; and (c) preparation of the architectural designs 
of such facilities and buildings. 
- 22 -
Part C: Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
1. 
Carrying out of: (a) studies for the physical and social development of each 
community to be included in a Subproject; (b) local economic development studies for 
each such community; (c) studies of mechanisms to deliver home improvement, serviced 
land and appropriate housing alternatives to the poor; (d) design of organization, 
technical support and assistance to offer access to micro-credit lines; (e) other studies 
required for Project implementation; and (f) feasibility studies for a second stage of the 
Project. 
2. 
Carrying out of the following activities: (a) studies and development and 
implementation of instruments for urban development in poor areas, including, inter alia,
definition of poverty indicators for program monitoring, cost recovery studies and 
subsidy structures, and other related mechanisms; and (b) provision of technical 
assistance and capacity-building, including in-service training and provision of the 
necessary equipment therefor, to: (i) CONDER, SEDUR and Participating Secretariats to 
enable them to use the instruments developed and disseminated by the Project, and, in the 
case of the Participating Secretariats, to operate and maintain the services created by the 
Project; and (ii) the Participating Municipalities to enable them to use the instruments 
developed and disseminated by the Project and to operate and maintain the infrastructure 
created by the Project. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance for Project management, monitoring and 
evaluation, and for communication and public relations activities related to the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2010. 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Payment Date
Installment Share
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
Beginning May 15, 2011 
 
 through May 15, 2022 
4.17% 
 
On November 15, 2022 
 
4.09% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 24 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and non-consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of 
this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ Services
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and non-consultants’ services estimated cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, and works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding and the following additional provisions, using bidding documents, satisfactory to 
the Bank, in a standardized form for the Project: 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
- 26 -
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
in at least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil; 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
2. 
Shopping
Goods and non-consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, and works estimated to cost less than $350,000 may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping procedures, and a standard request for 
quotations acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
Community Participation
Works under Subprojects costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured in accordance with the procedures for community participation as provided in 
paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and as set forth in the Operational Manual 
for community participation. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for assignments costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 
- 27 -
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
