CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4838-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Sichuan Urban Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 27, 2006 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4838-CHA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 2006, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Sichuan (as defined in Section 1.02) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to Sichuan, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Sichuan (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the following modifications (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed 
under the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. 
 
- 2 -
To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of 
any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set 
forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in  
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project and the Related Activities, have experienced or would experience direct 
economic and social impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land and land use 
rights, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; 
or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must 
move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons; 
and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
(c) 
“Environment Management Plans” means, collectively, the Mianyang 
EMP, Panzhihua EMP, Suining EMP, Yibin EMP, and the environment management 
plans prepared by the Project Municipalities and agreed by the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as such plans may 
be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and “Environment 
Management Plan” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
(d) 
“Housing Compensation Contract” means the Agreement on Demolition 
of Rural Houses and Buildings of Project Affected Peoples and Provision of 
Compensation set forth in the Annex to the Mianyang RAP and the Suining  RAP, which 
agreement is to be signed between the agency and/or entity representing Mianyang or 
Suining, as the case may be, and the representative of the household whose house and/or 
structures are to be acquired; said agreement provides, inter alia, for provision of 
apartment and/or housing site and temporary rental allowance for said household. 
 
(e) 
“Livelihood Restoration Contract” means the Agreement on Land 
Acquisition and Compensation, including Life Allowances and Resettlement Assistance 
to Project Affected Persons, set forth in the Annex to the Mianyang RAP and the Suining  
- 3 -
RAP, which agreement is to be signed between the agency and/or entity representing 
Mianyang or Suining, as the case may be, and a collective whose land is to be acquired; 
said agreement provides, inter alia, for: (i) acquisition of land from said collective; 
(ii) payment of compensation and resettlement assistance directly to the Displaced Person 
listed in the agreement concerned and provision of rehabilitation measures to said 
Displaced Person; (iii) the right of legal recourse by said Displaced Person against said 
agency and/or entity under specified circumstances; and (iv) in the event that the legal 
form of said collective is changed, survival of the obligations of said agency and/or entity 
and the survival of the rights of said Displaced Person. 
 
(f) 
“Mianyang” means Mianyang Municipality within Sichuan Province, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
(g) 
“Mianyang EMP” means the Mianyang Environmental Management 
Plan dated October 2005, prepared on behalf of Mianyang, which sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of Part A.1 of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as 
said plan may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(h) 
“Mianyang RAP” means the Mianyang Urban Development Project, 
Resettlement Action Plan dated July 26, 2006, and adopted by Mianyang Municipality; 
said plan sets out, with respect to the implementation of Part A.1 of the Project,  
procedures and obligations governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation measures for Displaced Persons, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and such term includes the Livelihood 
Restoration Contract and the Housing Compensation Contract set forth in annexes to said 
plan.  
 
(i) 
“Mianyang RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework set forth in 
Annex 3 of the Mianyang RAP; said framework sets out the policies and procedures for 
land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and 
for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required during the 
development of Zone 2 Area of Pioneer Park, Zone 2 Area of Southern Economic 
Development Zone and the Municipal Section of the Second Ring Road, as each is herein 
defined, all located in Mianyang Muncipality.    
 
(j) 
“MSCIC” means Mianyang Sanjiang Construction and Investment Co. 
Ltd., a state-owned limited liability company, established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter dated December 30, 2001, and its current Business License No. 5107001895018 
dated April 18, 2005, issued by Mianyang Municipal Industrial and Commercial 
Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
(k) 
“MSEPIC” means Mianyang Science and Education Pioneer Investment 
Co. Ltd., a state-owned limited liability company, established and operating pursuant to 
- 4 -
its Charter dated July 7, 2001, and its current Business License No. 5107001895016 
dated March 17, 2006, issued by Mianyang Municipal Industrial and Commercial 
Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto.  
 
(l) 
“Municipal Section of the Second Ring Road” means the section of the 
Second Ring Road financed by Mianyang and to be constructed between the boundary of 
Pioneer Park and Southwest University of Science and Technology located in Qingyi 
Town in Mianyang Municipality. 
 
(m) 
“Panzhihua” means Panzhihua Municipality within Sichuan Province, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
(n) 
“Panzhihua EMP” means the Panzhihua Development  Management Plan 
dated October 2005, prepared on behalf of Panzhihua, which sets out the environmental 
protection measures in respect of Part A.4 of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(o) 
“Panzhihua RAP” means the Panzhihua Urban Environment Project 
Resettlement Action Plan, dated February 2006 and adopted by Panzhihua Municipality; 
said plan sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation for Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part A.4 of the 
Project, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.   
 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated July 
18, 2006, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(q) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Sichuan of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
 
(r) 
“Project Company” means, individually, each of MSCIC, MSEPIC, 
PUCIMC, and YUCIC, and any successor thereto; and “Project Companies” means, 
collectively, all such companies. 
 
(s) 
“Project Municipalities” means, collectively, Mianyang, Panzhihua,  
Suining and Yibin; and a “Project Municipality” means, individually, any of said Project 
Municipalities.  
 
- 5 -
(t) 
“Project Section of the Second Ring Road” means the section of the 
Second Ring Road under Part A.1 of the Project to be constructed from the interchange 
with Yingbin Avenue to the boundary of Pioneer Park in Mianyang Municipality.  
 
(u) 
“PUCIMC” 
means 
Panzhihua 
Urban 
Construction 
Investment 
Management Co. Ltd., a state-owned limited liability company, established and operating 
pursuant to its Charter dated December 26, 2004, the Panzhihua Municipal Document 
No. 11 (2003) and its current  Business License No. 5101001803166 dated January 12, 
2005, issued by Panzhihua Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
(v) 
“PWAC” means Panzhihua Water Affairs (Group) Company, a state-
owned limited liability company, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
March 26, 2004, and its current  Business License No. 5104001800827 dated January 6, 
2001, issued by Panzhihua Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau.  
PWAC will be responsible for the construction of Qingxiangping Wastewater Treatment 
Plant in Panzhihua. 
 
(w) 
“Qingxiangping RAP” means the abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan 
for the Qingxiangping Sewage Treatment Plant set forth in the Annex to the Panzhihua 
RAP and adopted by Panzhihua Municipality; said plan sets out the procedures governing 
land acquisition, resettlement and compensation for Displaced Persons for the 
construction of said plant, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
(x) 
“Related Activities” means, collectively: 
 
(i) 
development in Zone 2 Area of Pioneer Park and in Zone 2 Area 
of Southern Economic Development Zone, both in Mianyang 
Muncipality;  
 
(ii) 
development of Xining District Area in Suining Muncipality;  
 
(iii) 
construction of the Municipal Section of the Second Ring Road; 
and  
 
(iv) 
construction of the Qingxiangping Wastewater Treatment Plant 
in Panzhihua Municipality,  
 
and “Related Activity” means, individually, any such activity. 
 
(y) 
Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the Mianyang RAP, 
Panzhihua RAP, Suining RAP, Yibin RAP, Qingxiangping RAP and the resettlement 
action plans prepared by the Project Municipalities and agreed by the Bank pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 2(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as such plans 
- 6 -
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means, individually, any such plan.  
 
(z) 
“Resettlement Policy Frameworks” means, collectively, the Mianyang 
RPF and Suining RPF; and “Resettlement Policy Framework” means, individually, any 
such framework. 
 
 
(aa) 
“Respective Environment Management Plan” means in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Mianyang, MSCIC and MSEPIC: Mianyang EMP; 
 
(ii) 
Panzhihua and PUCIMC: Panzhihua EMP;  
 
(iii) 
Suining: Suining EMP; and   
 
(iv) 
Yibin and YUCIC: Suining EMP. 
 
(bb) 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of:  
 
(i) 
MSCIC: Parts A.1(a) , A.1(b), B and C of the Project;  
 
(ii) 
MSEPIC: Parts A.1(c), B and C of the Project; 
 
(iii) 
PUCIMC: Parts A.4, B and C of the Project;  
 
(iv) 
YUCIC: Parts A.3, B and C of the Project; and 
 
(v) 
Suining: Part A.2, B and C of the Project.  
 
(cc) 
“Respective Project Company” means in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Mianyang: MSCIC and MSEPIC;  
 
(ii) 
Panzhihua: PUCIMC; and 
 
(iii) 
Yibin:  YUCIC. 
 
(dd) 
“Respective Resettlement Action Plan” means in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Mianyang, MSCIC and MSEPIC: Mianyang RAP; 
 
(ii) 
Panzhihua, PUCIMC and PWAC: Panzhihua RAP and 
Qingxiangping RAP;  
 
(iii) 
Suining: Suining RAP; and   
- 7 -
(iv) 
Yibin and YUCIC: Suining RAP. 
 
(ee) 
“Respective Resettlement Policy Framework” means in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Mianyang, MSCIC and MSEPIC: Mianyang RPF; and 
 
(ii) 
Suining: Suining RPF.  
 
(ff) 
“Sichuan” means the Borrower’s Province of Sichuan, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
(gg) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
(hh) 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be 
entered into between each Project Municipality and its Project Company pursuant to 
paragraphs 9 and 10(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank, and such term includes 
all schedules and supplements to said agreements; and a “Subsidiary Agreement” means, 
individually, any of said Subsidiary Agreements.  
 
(ii) 
“Suining” means Suining Municipality within Sichuan Province, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(jj) 
“Suining EMP” means the Suining Environmental Management Plan 
dated October 2005 prepared on behalf of Suining, which sets out the environmental 
protection measures in respect of Part A.2 of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
(kk) 
“Suining RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan of Suining 
Components dated July 26, 2006 and adopted by Suining Municipality; said plan sets out, 
with respect to the implementation of Part A.2 of the Project,  procedures and obligations 
governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation measures for 
Displaced Persons, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and such term includes the Livelihood Restoration Contract and 
the Housing Compensation Contract set forth in annexes to said plan.   
 
(ll) 
“Suining RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework set forth in 
Annex 3 of the Mianyang RAP; said framework sets out the policies and procedures for 
land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and 
for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required during the 
development of Xining District Area in Suining Muncipality.   
- 8 -
(mm) “Three Economic Development Zones” means, collectively, Zone 2 Area 
of Pioneer Park, Zone 2 Area of Southern Economic Development Zone and Xining 
District Area, as each is herein defined. 
(nn) 
“Xining District Area in Suining Muncipality” means the area delineated 
on the map in Annex C to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(oo) 
“Yibin” means Yibin Municipality within Sichuan Province, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(pp) 
“Yibin EMP” means the Yibin Environmental Management Plan dated 
October 2005, prepared on behalf of Yibin, which sets out out the environmental 
protection measures in respect of Part A.3 of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(qq) 
“Yibin RAP” means the Yibin Urban Riverside Loop Line Road Project 
Resettlement Action Plan, dated February 2006 and adopted by Yibin Municipality; said 
plan sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation 
for Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Part A.3 of the Project, as well as 
monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.   
 
(rr) 
“YUCIC” means Yibin Urban Construction Investment Co. Ltd., a state-
owned limited liability company, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
September 23, 2003, and its current Business License No. 5115001808835 dated  
March 6, 2004, issued by Yibin Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration 
Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
(ss) 
“Zone 2 Area of Pioneer Park” means the area of Pioneer Park delineated 
on the map in Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(tt) 
“Zone 2 Area of Southern Economic Development Zone” means the area 
of Pioneer Park delineated on the map in Annex B to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Sichuan, each of the Project 
Municipalities, and each of the Project Companies.  
 
- 9 -
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
eighty million Dollars ($180,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in  
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2013, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
- 10 -
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six (6) month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six (6) month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
- 11 -
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Sichuan to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Sichuan therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Sichuan to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Sichuan 
on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or of payment out of the Special Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
- 12 -
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Sichuan pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Sichuan to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause Sichuan to: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;  
 
- 13 -
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Sichuan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.  
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
Sichuan will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Any of the parties to any of the Subsidiary Agreements shall have failed 
to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01.  The following event is  specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Sichuan and is legally binding upon Sichuan in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 14 -
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
By: /s/ Mr. Zhu Guangyao 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Mr. David Dollar 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1  
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Civil works: 
 
(a) under Part A.1 of the Project 
 
(b) under Part A.2 of the Project 
 
(c) under Part A.3 of the Project 
 
(d) under Part A.4 of the Project 
 
47,910,000 
28,800,000 
28,300,000 
67,990,000 
70% 
(2) Goods  
 
1,000,000 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services  
 
6,000,000
100% 
TOTAL 
180,000.000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
 in respect of payments made for expenditures under the Project prior to 
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $18,000,000 for expenditures by the Project Companies may be made in 
respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after December 5, 2005; and 
 
(b) 
under Category 1(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the 
Subsidiary Agreement between Mianyang and MSCIC and the Subsidiary Agreement 
between Mianyang and MSEPIC, both satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been executed 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 9 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
under Category 1(c) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Subsidiary 
Agreement between Yibin and YUCIC, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
executed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; and under Category 1(d) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the 
Subsidiary Agreement between Panzhihua and PUCIMC, satisfactory to the Bank, shall 
have been executed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement. 
- 17 -
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$300,000 equivalent each; and (c) consultants’ services under contracts with firms or 
individuals, each costing less than $100,000 equivalent or $50,000 equivalent, 
respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Sichuan Province in 
facilitating rational urban development by removing identified infrastructure problems 
that impede land development, efficient transport movement and environmental 
protection. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A:
Urban Investments
Carry out the following priority infrastructure investments to facilitate rational 
urban development in the Project Municipalities:  
 
1. 
Mianyang 
 
Provision of basic infrastructure and improving access to facilitate the expansion 
of two major urban development areas adjacent to the city center in Mianyang 
Muncipality, including: (a) construction of local access roads and associated bridges, 
sewers, drainage and landscaping in Pioneer Park; (b) construction of the section of the 
Second Ring Road from the interchange with Yingbin Avenue to the boundary of Pioneer 
Park; and (c) construction of local access roads and associated drainage infrastructure and 
landscaping in the Southern Economic Development Zone.  
 
2. 
Suining  
 
Provision of basic infrastructure for and access to new urban areas, including: 
(a) construction of access and distributor roads, bridges, river embankment, sewers and 
landscaping for the development of the Xining District Area; and (b) construction of 
Xining Road to provide access from Xining District Area to the existing Chengbei 
Railway Station. 
 
3. 
Yibin 
 
Improve access within the city and improve the degraded riverbank environment 
in Yibin Muncipality, including: (a) construction of a distributor road following the banks 
of the Minjiang River and Chang Jiang River, to connect the old city area and existing 
urban areas with Tianyuan District and a proposed new industrial development zone; and 
(b) extension of an existing riverbank wall and a local road from the center of Nan An 
District. 
- 19 -
4. 
Panzhihua 
 
Improve access, traffic movement and natural environment in Panzhihua 
Muncipality including:  (a) construction of Bing-Ren Road to link the existing central 
business district and the residential district of Renhe and construction of the upper section 
of Bin Jiang Road, 2.7 kilometers, downstream from Dukou Bridge and underlying trunk 
sewer network; (b) construction of wastewater collection systems in Bingcaogang, 
Geliping and Qingxiangping catchments, which will be connected to the existing 
Bingcaogang Wastewater Treatment Plant and a new Qingxiangping Wastewater 
Treatment Plant to be constructed; and (c) cleaning up,  landscaping and constructing 
embankments along selected sections of the Jinsha River. 
 
Part B:
Institutional Development and Capacity Building
1. 
Provide support for the implementation of Project activities, by developing the 
institutional capacity of agencies and entities implementing the Project, including 
provision of technical assistance for design review, procurement, and monitoring the 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plans and Resettlement Action Plans 
and training and study tours during Project implementation.  
2. 
Build the institutional capacity of selected municipalities in urban planning and 
management systems, including spatial planning, land management, transport planning, 
and utility and asset management, through use of a management information system and 
geographical information system.  
 
Part C: Resettlement 
Carry out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with 
the implementation of Part A of the Project and the implementation of Related Activities. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2013. 
- 20 -
Annex A to Schedule 2 
 
Zone 2 Area of Pioneer Park, Mianyang Muncipality 
 
- 21 -
Annex B to Schedule 2 
 
Zone 2 Area of Southern Economic Development Zone, Mianyang Muncipality  
 
- 22 -
Annex C to Schedule 2 
 
Xining District Area, Suining Muncipality 
 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date of Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
May 15, 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
3,960,000 
November 15, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
4,065,000 
May 15, 2013  
 
 
 
 
 
4,175,000 
November 15, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
4,290,000 
May 15, 2014  
 
 
 
 
 
4,405,000 
November 15, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
4,525,000 
May 15, 2015  
 
 
 
 
 
4,650,000 
November 15, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
4,775,000 
May 15, 2016  
 
 
 
 
 
4,905,000 
November 15, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
5,040,000 
May 15, 2017  
 
 
 
 
 
5,175,000 
November 15, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
5,315,000 
May 15, 2018  
 
 
 
 
 
5,460,000 
November 15, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
5,610,000 
May 15, 2019  
 
 
 
 
 
5,765,000 
November 15, 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
5,920,000 
May 15, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
6,080,000 
November 15, 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
6,245,000 
May 15, 2021  
 
 
 
 
 
6,415,000 
November 15, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
6,590,000 
May 15, 2022  
 
 
 
 
 
6,770,000 
November 15, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
6,955,000 
May 15, 2023  
 
 
 
 
 
7,145,000 
November 15, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
7,340,000 
May 15, 2024  
 
 
 
 
 
7,535,000 
November 15, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
7,740,000 
May 15, 2025  
 
 
 
 
 
7,955,000 
November 15, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
8,170,000 
May 15, 2026  
 
 
 
 
 
8,390,000 
November 15, 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
8,635,000 
 
_______________ 
*The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.  
 
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
- 25 -
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
- 26 -
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
