CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7383 - BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
(Road Transport Project - PREMEF) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 3, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7383 – BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 2007, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is undertaking an initiative to reduce logistics 
costs (Programa de Reducao de Custos Logisticos) in the road, port and rail sectors, 
including a federal road rehabilitation and maintenance program (the Program).  The 
Program aims at improving the condition of the Borrower’s paved road network and thus, 
reducing road transport costs and facilitating growing passengers’ movements, such 
Program estimated to cost two billion Dollars ($2,000,000,000) over the period from 
2005 through 2012 and to cover, inter alia, rehabilitation of about 25,000 kilometers of 
road sections in the Borrower’s territory; 
(B) the first phase of the Program, to be carried out during the period from 2005 
through 2009, is estimated to cost about one billion two hundred million Dollars 
($1,200,000,000) and will cover, inter alia, rehabilitation of about 15,000 kilometers of 
road sections (the First Phase of the Program); 
(C) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms part 
of the First Phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to: (i) support the Project by 
reimbursing part of the expenditures for civil works incurred by the Borrower in carrying 
out the Project; and (ii) assist in the financing of other Project costs, including those for 
technical assistance; and 
(D) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
(a) Except as otherwise provided in (b) below, the “General 
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of 
the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:  
(i) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read 
as follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or 
on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in 
respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent 
with such policy of the Bank.” 
(ii) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive.” 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1.01. (a) of this Agreement, 
Articles III and IV of the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007) (the 2007 General Conditions), as well as the 
definitions set forth in the Appendix of the 2007 General Conditions of the terms 
used in said Articles III and IV, constitute an integral part of this Agreement with 
respect to Article II and Schedule III of this Agreement.   
 
3
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the 2007 General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:  
(a) 
“ACL” means Assessoria de Cadastro e Licitações, DNIT’s Procurement 
Department; 
(b) 
“ANTT” means Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres, the 
Borrower’s National Land Transport Regulatory Agency; 
(c) 
“Catalogues of Technical Solutions” means the two sets of technical 
solutions for road rehabilitation works, issued by DNIT through the Instrução de Serviço 
No. 11 dated September 16, 2003 and the Instrução de Serviço No. 5 dated December 9, 
2005”; 
 
(d) 
“Disbursement Period” means each twelve month period referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“DNIT” means Departamento Nacional de Infraestrutura de Transportes,
the Borrower’s National Department for Transport Infrastructure; 
(f) 
“DNIT Management Group” means the group established by DNIT’s 
Portaria No. 1.530 dated November 24, 2005, to provide support in the implementation 
and coordination of the First Phase of the Program; 
 
(g) 
“DNIT SBD” means the standard bidding document to be used for 
biddings to be undertaken according to Law 8666 Procedures under the First Phase of the 
Program, which was approved by DNIT on November 7, 2005, as such document may be 
amended with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(h) 
“FMR” means each report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“ICB Procedures” means the procurement procedures set out in Section 
II of the Procurement Guidelines; 
(j) 
“Indigenous People Development Framework” means the document 
entitled Diretrizes para Projetos de Atendimento aos Povos Indígenas afetados por 
Empreendimentos Rodoviários, dated November 2005, and approved pursuant to Instrução 
de Serviço No. 5, issued by DNIT on November 7, 2005, which sets forth the principles and 
policies that apply to the preparation and carrying out of any indigenous peoples 
4
development plan that may be required under the Project, in accordance to the policies of 
the Borrower’s National Foundation for Indigenous People (FUNAI); 
 
(k) 
“Input-based Contract” means a road rehabilitation contract, the 
supervision of which is undertaken on the basis of inputs; 
(l) 
“Inter-Ministerial Working Group” means the group referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Law 8666 Procedures” means the open national competitive bidding 
procedures (concorrência pública) set forth in the Borrower’s Law No. 8666, of June 6, 
1993, as amended, which governs the bidding procedures and contracts of the public 
administration entities, such procedures applicable to contracts for civil works under Part 
A of the Project, pursuant to Section II B of Schedule 4 of this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Management Firm Contract” means the contract referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“MT” means Ministério dos Transportes, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Transport; 
(p) 
“Output-based Contract” means a road rehabilitation and maintenance 
contract, the supervision of which is undertaken on the basis of outputs; 
(q)  
“Pilot Investment Project” means the series of strategic investment 
projects selected by the Borrower, for which the related expenditures, over the 
2005-2007 period, are excluded from the Borrower’s fiscal adjustment targets, as 
defined in the budget guidelines law N° 11178, dated September 20, 2005 (Lei de 
Diretrizes Orcamentarias), for the year 2006, as updated annually by the 
Borrower;  
(r) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, issued by the Bank in May 2004;  
(s) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementation Entities’ 
procurement plan, dated December, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(t) 
“Project Implementation Entity” means DNIT, STN, MT or ANTT, and 
“Project Implementation Entities” means all of them together; 
5
(u) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(v) 
“Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s document entitled 
Diretrizes para Reassentamento Involuntário, dated November 2005, and approved 
pursuant to Instrução de Serviço No. 5, issued by DNIT on November 7, 2005, which 
contains the principles and policies that apply to the preparation and carrying out of any 
resettlement action plan that may be required under the Project; 
 
(w) 
“Review Period” means each twelve month period referred to in Section 
3.06 (c) of this Agreement, during which compliance with the conditions set forth in the 
chart in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement will determine the adjustable Loan 
disbursement percentage applicable to the immediately subsequent Disbursement Period for 
purposes of disbursement Category (1) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of said 
Schedule; 
(x) 
“R$” means Brazilian reais, the Borrower’s currency; and 
(y) 
“STN” means Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional, the Secretariat of the 
National Treasury in the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred one 
million two hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($501,250,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: 
(a) 
in respect of Part A of the Project as reimbursement for part of the 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower, for civil works contracts bid  
under Law 8666 Procedures or ICB procedures as the case may be; 
(b) 
in respect of Parts A and B of the Project to finance part of the 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower, under contracts not procured 
6
under Law 8666 Procedures, for: (i) civil works contracts, and (ii) 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required under the Project; and 
(c) 
in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 
4.04 (c) of the 2007 General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish, after having received a request from the Borrower through its 
Ministry of Finance, to extend the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest 
Period, at the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the 
Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the 2007 General Conditions.  
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. (a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
7
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the Appendix 
(19) of the 2007 General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the 2007 General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 2007 General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i)  through 
DNIT, carry out Parts A and B.3 of the Project; (ii) through STN, carry out Part B.1 of 
the Project; (iii) through MT, carry out Part B.2 of the Project; and (iv) through ANTT, 
carry out Part B.4 of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, road rehabilitation and maintenance, administrative, 
financial, environmental and social practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall: 
(i) 
through the Project Implementation Entities, carry out the 
Project in accordance with the principles and recommendations, 
as applicable, set forth in: (A) the Resettlement Framework; (B) 
8
the Indigenous People Development Framework; and (C) the 
environmental manual, submitted by DNIT to the Bank on April 
20, 2005, which provides for the norms and procedures for 
prevention, reduction or mitigation of the environmental impacts 
of works under the Project; and  
(ii) 
establish, and thereafter maintain, an inter-ministerial working 
group comprising, inter alia, representatives of the Borrower’s 
Ministries of Finance, Planning, Budget and Management, and 
Transport, and the Presidency’s Civil Office (Casa Civil), to 
assist the Borrower in ensuring the efficient execution of the 
Project, in a coordinated manner, among the Project 
Implementation Entities.  
 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, non-consultants’ services and consultants’ services required for the Project 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions 
may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Entities, shall update 
the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
such update to the Bank not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding 
Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Entities, shall: 
(i) submit to the Bank, for its prior review and approval, all proposed terms of 
reference for consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
and any proposed method of selection of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 per contract; and (ii) in the employment of consultants’ services, 
use the terms of reference approved by the Bank. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, through each Project Implementing 
Entity, maintain, within each Project Implementing Entity, a unit responsible for 
the management and supervision of the respective Parts of the Project under the 
responsibility of such Project Implementing Entity, each such unit to have 
functions, responsibilities and structure satisfactory to the Bank as shall be 
required to ensure an efficient execution of the Project, and to have staff in 
adequate numbers as shall be necessary to carry out its activities, all with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.04.  (a) 
 In order to strengthen DNIT’s overall capacity to 
manage the First Phase of the Program, the Borrower, through DNIT, shall:  
9
(i) 
maintain, during the first two years of the execution of the 
First Phase of the Program, a project management 
consulting firm, under a contract satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Management Firm Contract), to assist DNIT in the 
management, implementation and supervision of the First 
Phase of the Program, and to provide support to DNIT in 
administrative, technical and financial matters related to the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project, including support to at 
least 10 DNIT regional offices through the establishment 
by the management consulting firm of 5 of its own regional 
offices; and 
 
(ii) 
maintain the DNIT Management Group; 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through DNIT, shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the contract referred to in paragraph (a) (i) above in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan. 
 
(c) 
Upon the termination of the contract referred to in paragraph (a) (i) 
above, the Borrower, through DNIT, shall continue to take all measures, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that may be required to ensure an efficient execution of 
the First Phase of the Program by DNIT. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through DNIT, shall prepare the designs for 
works under the First Phase of the Program on the basis of the Catalogues of 
Technical Solutions. 
 
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through DNIT, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, during the Project’s implementation period, a Program 
monitoring system,  satisfactory to the Bank, to enable DNIT to monitor on an on-
going basis all Program procurement, payment and contract management data; 
and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, in February 2008 or when disbursements from the 
Loan Account have reached an amount equal to 50% of the Loan amount, whichever 
occurs first, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the First Phase of the Program 
during the period preceding the date of such review, based on the monitoring and 
evaluation activities referred to in paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the First Phase of the Program and the 
10
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said review;  
 
(c) 
not later than April 30 of each year during Project execution, prepare a 
report for submission to the Inter-Ministerial Working Group, and the Bank:  (i) evaluating 
the performance in the execution of the First Phase of the Program, and progress in 
improving the Program’s planning, execution and monitoring; (ii) identifying the main 
constraints to further improve the Program’s efficiency; and (iii) certifying compliance or 
lack thereof, for verification by the Bank, with each of the events set forth in the chart in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the twelve month period immediately 
preceding said date (the Review Period); 
(d) 
not later than July 31 of each year during Project execution, submit to the 
Inter-Ministerial Working Group and the Bank, the draft of the planned road maintenance 
and rehabilitation activities (including preparation of designs, undertaking and 
supervision of civil works) to be carried out under the First Phase of the Program during 
the following year, and the corresponding budget proposed thereof; and 
(e) 
take into account the Inter-Ministerial Working Group’s and the Bank’s 
comments on such report, draft plan and budget when finalizing the First Phase of the 
Program’s budgetary proposal for the year in question. 
Section 3.07. 
The Borrower, through MT, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objective of the Project; and  
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Entities, 
shall maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
11
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank, through DNIT, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year 
(or such other period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
the case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement, the Borrower, through DNIT, 
12
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank (the FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately, in the case of items for Part B of the Project and of 
civil works covered by the Borrower’s budget line reserved for 
external financing (as indicated in Section 4.04 (b) of this 
Agreement), funds provided under the Loan and explains, again 
in the case of said Part B and said civil works, variances between 
the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall: (i) cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; and (ii) include the list of all contracts for works to be carried out under 
the First Phase of the Program.  Thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not 
covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. Project expenditures, if resulting from contracts procured in 
accordance with the Law 8666 Procedures, will be covered initially by the Borrower’s 
own resources (other than those accounted under the budget lines mentioned in Section 
4.04 below), and reimbursed by the Bank in accordance to the percentages mentioned in 
Schedule 1. 
 
Section 4.04. Project expenditures, if resulting from contracts procured other than 
in accordance with the Law 8666 Procedures, will be covered: (a) in part by the 
Borrower’s budget line reserved for domestic counterpart financing, and reimbursed by 
the Bank out of the Loan proceeds; and (b) the remainder by the Borrower’s budget line 
reserved for external financing, and financed by the Bank out of the Loan proceeds.  The 
part being covered by the Borrower’s external financing budget line will be equal to 10% 
of said expenditures in the case of civil works, and 100% of said expenditures in the case 
of goods, non-consultants’ services, consultants’ services and training. 
 
13
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion to 
be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been validly registered with the 
Central Bank of Brazil. 
Section 5.02.  The date April 6, 2008, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8° andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3412-1740 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P”, Anexo “B” 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3412-1469 
14
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5° andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
Departamento Nacional de Infraestrutura de Transporte 
 
SAN Quadra 3, Edificio Núcleo dos Transportes 
Bloco A, 4° andar 
 
70040-902 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 315-4050 
 
Ministerio dos Transportes 
Secretaria-Executiva 
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco “R”, 5° andar 
70044-900 Brasilia, D.F. 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3311-7843 
 (55-61) 3311-7845 
 
Agencia Nacional de Transportes Terrestres – ANTT 
SBN. Quadra 2, Bloco C, 13o. Andar 
70040-020 Brasilia, D.F. 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3410-1859 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
15
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
16
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Suely Dib de Sousa e Silva  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Alexandre V. Abrantes 
Authorized Representative 
17
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth:  
 
(a) 
the Categories of items to be paid by the Borrower and reimbursed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan in each Category, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(b)  
the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
each Category, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c)  
the percentages of expenditures so to be reimbursed or financed in each 
Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan  
Allocated  
(expressed in Dollars)
% of  
Expenditures for 
which Loan Account 
Withdrawals 
can be Made
(1)  Works under Part A of 
the Project 
 
(a) carried out under 
Output-based Contracts 
 
(b) carried out under Input-
based Contracts 
 
232,000,000 
 
200,000,000 
 
 
100% 
 
From 70% to 85% 
(subject to the 
provisions of paragraph 
4 of this Schedule) 
 
(2) Goods, non-consultants’ 
services, consultants’  
services and training under 
Part B of the Project 
 
30,000,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end fee 
 
1,253,125 
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement  
 
% of  
18
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan  
Allocated  
(expressed in Dollars)
Expenditures for 
which Loan Account 
Withdrawals 
can be Made
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0 
 
Amount due under 
Section 2.09 (c) of this 
Agreement 
(5) Unallocated 
 
37,996,875
TOTAL  
 
501,250,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "training" means reasonable costs of 
travel and per diems of trainees, training materials, and other training related 
expenditures other than consultants’ services. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $95,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) (a) and (1) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but not 
earlier than one year from the date of this Agreement, subject, in the case of expenditures 
under Category (1) (b), to the adjustment of the percentages of expenditures for which 
such withdrawal can be made as detailed in paragraph 4 below. 
4. 
The percentages of expenditures for which withdrawals can be made out of the 
Loan Account in respect of Category 1 (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule shall be adjusted once at the beginning of every period of twelve months (the 
Disbursement Period) during the execution of the Project, starting by not later than May 
31, 2007, as indicated and subject to the realization of the events set out in the chart 
below.  Each such periodic adjustment will use 70% as the base upon which the 
adjustment is made, and shall not, at any time, result in a percentage exceeding 85% or 
falling below 70%.  The relevant percentage thus set for each Disbursement Period shall 
apply to Loan withdrawal requests received by the Bank during said Disbursement 
Period.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of any such adjustment of the 
percentages of expenditures for which withdrawals can be made. 
 
Adjustment in % 
19
 
Events
of Expenditures 
for which Withdrawals  
can be Made
First recruitment of personnel, including at least 120 
staff with transport analyst functions, has been 
authorized by the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning, 
Budget and Management as part of DNIT’s plan for 
personnel and wages (Plano de Cargos e Salários), 
and such authorization remains in force during the 
relevant Review Period as verified by the Bank.  
 
+3 
At least 100 new transport analyst functions have 
been filled in DNIT and remain as such during the 
relevant Review Period as verified by the Bank.  
 
+3 
The Borrower’s budget provides sufficient available 
resources (in terms of valores empenhados*) for the 
First Phase of the Program during the relevant 
Review Period as verified by the Bank. 
+1.5 for a Disbursement 
Period for whose Review 
Period at least R$700 
million is available in the 
budget on an annualized 
basis 
 
+1.5 (additional to the 
previous 
+1.5) 
for 
a 
Disbursement Period for 
whose Review Period at 
least R$900 million is 
available in the budget on 
an annualized basis 
 
DNIT has, each month over a continuous four-month 
period during the relevant Review Period, submitted a 
map of the federal road network, satisfactory to the 
Borrower, through MT, and the Bank, identifying all 
Program works being planned and underway, as well 
as progress in the execution of such works. 
 
+2  
As part of the Program, DNIT has prepared, and 
submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Working Group, a 
bridge rehabilitation action plan for the federal road 
+2 
 
20
network,** satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank, and such plan remains in force during the 
relevant Review Period as verified by the Bank.  
The average period of time between publication of 
bidding document and contract award dates for the 20 
contracts of highest value under the First Phase of the 
Program, which are signed during the relevant 
Review Period, is below 180 days as verified by the 
Bank. 
+2 
 
The average period of time between contract signing 
and start of work dates for the 20 contracts of highest 
value under the First Phase of the Program, which 
have start dates during the relevant Review Period, is 
below 180 days as verified by the Bank. 
+2 
 
The average period of time, during the relevant 
Review Period, between the date of signing of works’ 
bills (medições) under the Program and the recording 
of the works’ bills in DNIT’s Sistema de Medições is 
below 60 days as verified by the Bank.
+2 
 
As verified by the Bank, works under Program 
contracts are fully executed in a timely manner, as 
measured by determining the percentage of contracts 
fully performed, during the relevant Review Period, 
within the initial contract implementation period 
specified in the contract. 
+2 for a Disbursement 
Period for whose Review 
Period said percentage of 
fully performed contracts 
is above 15% 
As verified by the Bank, DNIT’s human resource 
management proposal (referred to in Part B 3 (e) (iii) 
of the Project) with respect to recruitment practices 
and procedures to be used by DNIT to employ 
qualified public sector personnel, has been completed 
and has been submitted to the Inter-Ministerial 
Working Group, through MT.  
+1.5 
* “valores empenhados” means the amounts assigned in the Borrower’s budget for 
specific expenses (budgetary commitments). 
21
** The action plan will include data on condition of all bridges on main federal roads, 
cost estimates of related rehabilitation works, agreements reached within the Borrower’s 
planning/execution structure, contractual arrangements and financing for such works. 
5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of 
expenditures to be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for: (a) works costing 
less than US$20,000,000 equivalent per contract; (b) goods or non-consultants’ services 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) consulting firms’ services costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) individual consultants’ services costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
6. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). 
 
7. 
Withdrawals made from the Loan Account as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
above shall be reflected in the Borrower’s budgetary system as indicated in Sections 4.03 
and 4.04 of this Agreement. 
22
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to stimulate higher economic growth by reducing 
road transport costs in the Borrower’s territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Carrying out of road maintenance and/or rehabilitation works under the First 
Phase of the Program provided that: 
(a)  
Input-based Contracts or Output-based Contracts bid prior to January 31, 
2006 must have been: (i) signed after January 1, 2001; and (ii) awarded under Law 8666 
Procedures or under ICB Procedures acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
works will not be included in the Project if the respective contract has 
been awarded under a bidding process where a bidder has been disqualified because of 
the application of: (i) Section 14.2 or 14.3 of the DNIT SBD, based on criteria considered 
by the Bank as non-material for purposes of disqualification of a bidder; or (ii) Article 48, 
II, paragraph 1, of Law 8666 referred to in Section 1.02 (m) of this Agreement, which 
allows the rejection of a bid if the offered price is below a certain limit; 
(c)  
in case any national or international financing institution or agency other 
than the Bank shall have provided funding (or agreed to provide funding), or the Bank 
shall have provided funding (or agreed to provide funding) other than under the Loan, in 
connection with part of the expenditures for such works, such part of the expenditures 
will not be considered as eligible for allowing withdrawal of Loan proceeds under the 
Project; 
(d)  
Input-based Contracts and Output-based-Contracts bid on or after 
January 31, 2006 must have been awarded using the DNIT SBD or the standard bidding 
document, referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Procurement Guidelines, for ICB 
Procedures for works, as the case may be;  
23
(e) 
bidding processes for works must have been carried out by ACL, or a 
regional unit of DNIT certified by ACL as capable of carrying out procurement in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; and 
(f)  
such works have been carried out in conformity with the frameworks and 
manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement (even if the works were 
carried out before the date of any of said frameworks or manual), when applicable. 
Part B: Technical Assistance 
Provision of technical assistance, which will include provision of consultants’ 
services, supply of computer hardware and software, and training, as follows:  
1. 
Provision of assistance to STN in: (a) designing and implementing a 
system to evaluate and monitor public investment programs, including, inter alia, those 
included under the Pilot Investment Project; (b) designing and implementing a system to 
evaluate and monitor the fiscal impact of public investment programs, including 
concessions and public-private partnerships; (c) undertaking studies to identify 
opportunities to improve efficiency of public expenditures; and (d) conducting training of 
staff of the Borrower’s federal agencies to disseminate such studies’ recommendations. 
2. 
Provision of assistance to MT in: (a) elaborating and implementing the 
Borrower’s strategy to proceed with transfer of federal road sections of local interest to 
the Borrower’s states; (b) strengthening the capacity of MT’s department in charge of 
evaluating proposals for concessions and public-private partnerships (Departamento de 
Outorga), through the elaboration and implementation of a strengthening plan, and the 
undertaking of the necessary technical and financial studies for a first set of pilot public-
private partnerships; and (c) providing training to staff in the following areas: structuring 
of public-private partnerships, transport economics, strategic planning, and improvements 
to quality of public spending.  
3. 
Strengthening of DNIT’s institutional capacity in: 
(a) 
the social and environmental area, by: (i) improving 
DNIT’s social and environmental assessment and mitigation procedures in 
the transport sector, and DNIT’s capacity to supervise the execution of 
mitigation measures; (ii) applying such revised procedures on a pilot basis; 
(iii) supporting the set-up of procedures for the carrying out of strategic 
environmental assessments; and (iv) streamlining environmental concerns 
in planning, execution and monitoring stages of transport sector activities;  
24
(b) 
the procurement and financial management areas, by: (i) 
streamlining, updating and monitoring procedures, (ii) modernizing 
information systems; (iii) improving bidding documents and bid 
evaluation procedures; and (iv) providing training to DNIT staff;  
(c) 
the internal audit area, through: (i) the provision of 
computer equipment; (ii) staff training; and (iii) undertaking of Project 
specific analysis by contracted experts; 
(d) 
the information management area, by modernizing, 
computerizing and integrating DNIT’s information systems, and 
expanding the use of computerized systems at the level of DNIT’s 
regional offices, to allow regular availability of physical and financial 
information related to all DNIT’s activities, and to track the evolution of 
DNIT’s performance indicators;  
(e) 
the human resources management area, by: (i) preparing 
and carrying out in-depth training programs for new staff; (ii) refreshment 
training programs for existing staff; and (iii) proposing recruitment 
practices and procedures to ensure that DNIT has access to, and can 
effectively employ, qualified personnel, including through the transfer of 
those already employed in other public agencies and entities; and  
(f) 
the technical area, by: (i) elaborating and implementing a bridge 
maintenance and rehabilitation program; (ii) undertaking road condition and 
traffic data collection; (iii) introducing and disseminating more cost-efficient 
concepts such as output-based contracts and value-engineering; (iv) training 
technical staff in reviewing technical designs and undertaking supervision; and 
(v) contracting technical audit services. 
4. 
Provision of assistance to ANTT in: (a) further strengthening ANTT’s 
regulatory framework; (b) completing and consolidating ANTT’s information and 
management systems, with the addition or strengthening of systems to manage human 
resources, international road transport, and supervision of road concessions; (c) 
structuring ANTT’s regional offices; (d) establishing performance indicators to measure 
ANTT’s efficiency; (e) preparing and carrying out in-depth training programs for new 
staff, and refreshment training programs for existing staff; and (f) undertaking 
preparatory studies aimed at increasing private sector involvement in the management of 
the paved federal road network, by identifying opportunities for, and structuring 
concessions with and without public subsidies. 
*** 
25
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Principal Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each 15 of June and 15 of December 
beginning June 15, 2011 through June 15, 2022 
4.17 % 
on December 15, 2022 
4.09 % 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
26
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
27
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and non-consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be, unless otherwise defined in this Agreement. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ Services 
A. 
ICB Procedures.
Except as otherwise provided in Parts B, C and D of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of ICB Procedures.  The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower. 
B. 
Law 8666 Procedures. Works estimated to cost less than $20,000,000 equivalent 
per contract shall be procured in accordance with Law 8666 Procedures and using the 
DNIT SBD. 
C. 
National Competitive Bidding. Goods and non-consultants’ services estimated to 
cost less than $500,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions, using bidding 
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, in a standardized form for the Project: 
(i) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 
of the Procurement Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always 
be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
28
(ii) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
in at least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil; 
(iii) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case;  
(iv) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(v) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
D. 
Shopping. Goods and non-consultants’ services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Shopping procedures. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for assignments costing $100,000 
equivalent or less per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services estimated to 
cost less $200,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
29
4. 
Individual Consultants.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review: (a) each contract for 
goods, works and non-consultants’ services procured on the basis of ICB Procedures; (b) 
the first three contracts for goods, works or non-consultants’ services procured on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding; (c) the first two contracts for goods or non-
consultants’ services procured by each Project Implementation Entity on the basis of 
Shopping procedures; and (d) each contract for consulting firm’s services estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more. In addition, with respect to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the report on the qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, the 
terms of reference and the terms of employment of the consultants shall be subject to 
prior approval by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank.
 
