CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7374-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Economic Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 22, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7374-GU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 22, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan 
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in 
Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
-2-
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to 
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal to thirty 
million Dollars ($30,000,000) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and the Program and, to this end, shall carry out the Project jointly with 
CIV/FONDETEL, MINECO and FONAPAZ and, shall coordinate, through SEGEPLAN, 
the implementation of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is November 28, 2007. 
-3-
ARTICLE V—REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
Centro Cívico, Zona 1 
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. 
 
Telephone: 
 
 
Fax: 
 
(502) 22485002  
 
(502) 22485005 
 
(502) 22485003  
 
(502) 22485084 
 
(502) 22485080 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
-4-
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By /s/ Mefi Rodríguez García 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the 
competitiveness of rural productive supply chains with strong indigenous participation; and (ii) 
strengthening the institutional capacity of the public entities participating in the Program for the 
adoption of a participatory territorial management model with indigenous involvement.  
 
Part 1:  Investment in Productive Supply Chains
Increasing the competitiveness of productive supply chains that have a rural base and strong 
indigenous participation in the Selected Departments through: 
 
1.1. 
(a) the establishment by MINECO, in cooperation with private professional associations 
and relevant service providers, including NGOs, of entrepreneur development services 
allowing rural productive organizations to access markets and link up with productive 
supply chains; and (b) the carrying out of Investment Subprojects by or for Beneficiaries; 
1.2. 
(a) the strengthening of MINECO’s capacity to assist rural enterprises in accessing 
financial services; (b) the provision of technical advisory services to, and support for,  
tailoring the services of financial institutions to the needs of rural productive 
organizations, and, in relation thereto; (c) the building of the required capacity in the  
rural productive organizations for accessing the  services of the financial institutions; and 
(d) the provision of credit facilities to be extended to selected financial institutions in 
furtherance thereof;  
 
1.3. 
the carrying out by FONAPAZ of public rural infrastructure and collective investments in 
economic infrastructure to support the development of new supply chain partnerships and 
the improvement of existing ones, through the provision of financing for the 
implementation of Investment Subprojects; and 
 
1.4. 
the provision of support, including technical advisory services and capacity building, by 
CIV through FONDETEL, for the development of the productive use of ICT 
infrastructure, networks and services, including the roll-out and the installation of public 
pay phones, mobile phone networks and services and a network of internet points of 
presence and telecenters, to be carried out in priority in the Selected Departments and, as 
needed, in other areas of the Borrower’s territory. 
 
Part 2:  Strengthening of the Territorial Public Management Capacities for Competitiveness
Enhancing overall institutional capacity for public management with the introduction of territorial 
development-based public management models best able to facilitate better informed public 
policy, public and/or private sector decision making processes and investments programs, 
including, in respect of SEGEPLAN: 
 
2.1. 
the development of the new territorial management model for rural development based on 
participatory principles and the fostering of public/private partnerships; 
 
-6-
2.2. 
the implementation of the model in the Selected Departments; 
 
2.3. 
the access to territorial strategic information through an integrated and decentralized 
territorial strategic information system; and  
 
2.4. 
the disclosure, awareness and training in relation thereto.   
 
Part 3:  Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Ensuring optimal implementation of the Project by strengthening management capacity of 
SEGEPLAN and the other Co-Executing Agencies participating in the Investment Coordination 
Committee with the Borrower’s commission against discrimination and racism, through the 
establishment and operation of a general management system that would include an efficient 
monitoring and evaluation system of the Program. 
 
-7-
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall furnish to the Bank a Project 
operational manual, satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank, setting forth 
rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying 
out of the Project, including the following: 
 
(i) 
the detailed description of: (A) Project activities; and (B) institutional 
arrangements in respect thereof; 
(ii) 
the detailed membership required of all entities to be set up for purposes 
of the Project, including inter alia, the Management Board and the 
Investment Coordination Committee; 
(iii) 
the administrative, financial, accounting, auditing, procurement and 
disbursement procedures for the implementation of the Project by all 
Executing  Entities, including the relevant standard documents in relation 
thereto; 
(iv) 
the selection criteria for: (i) the NGOs and other service providers, 
including the standard service agreements for the contracting of their 
services, (ii) the Beneficiaries and (iii) the Investment Subprojects under 
Part1.1 and  1.3 of the Project;  
(v) 
the Environmental Management Framework disclosed to the general 
public on January 12, 2006, therein setting forth the guidelines and the 
framework for mitigating potential harmful effects of Project 
implementation and including an IPDF prepared for the  Project; and 
(vi) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the Project, 
including the Performance Indicators. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall: (i) maintain the OM throughout 
Project implementation; (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project 
is carried out in conformity with the OM; and (iii) only amend the OM, from 
time to time, with the Bank’s prior written consent. 
(c) 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the OM and any one under 
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail. 
-8-
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that SEGEPLAN:  
 
(a) 
is maintained in structure and with personnel, including  procurement and 
financial management specialists, adequate in number and having terms of 
reference, functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank at all times during 
Project implementation;  
(b) 
remains responsible for the effective coordination of the overall Project, 
including the coordination of procurement, financial management, auditing, 
monitoring and evaluation aspects in relation thereto; and 
(c)  
submits annual work plans and budget for review and comments to the Bank and, 
for approval, to the Management Board. 
3. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a)  
establish, for purposes of the Project, an investment coordination committee and 
a management board with membership as set forth in the OM; and thereafter 
(b)  
maintain, through SEGEPLAN, during Project implementation, the said 
investment coordination committee and the management board in conformity 
with the specifications set forth in the Operational Manual. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:  
(a) 
SEGEPLAN:  
(i)  
enters into an agreement (the Framework Agreement) with each of the 
other Co-Executing  Agencies of the Project, therein setting forth the 
respective obligations of the parties thereunder, notably with respect to 
the implementation and the financing of the relevant parts of the Project, 
including the provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition of 
goods and the carrying out of works in relation thereto, and the appraisal 
of Investment Subprojects, all in accordance with the guidelines set forth 
in the OM; 
(ii)   
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each such 
agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any such agreement or any provision 
thereof; 
-9-
(b) 
MINECO and FONAPAZ respectively enter into agreements with the 
Beneficiaries wherein the modalities for the implementation of the Investment 
Subprojects shall be specified, all in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
the OM; and 
(c) 
Each other Co-Executing Agency to appoint and maintain, throughout Project 
implementation, key staff, including procurement and financial management 
specialists with qualifications, experience, terms of reference, resources and 
functions satisfactory at all times to the Bank. 
5. 
The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall: 
(a) 
ensure that the Investment Subprojects carried out under MINECO and 
FONAPAZ, respectively, are identified, appraised, approved, implemented, 
managed and evaluated in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in the OM; 
(b) 
carry out, on an annual basis, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank an 
independent technical audit of physical activities and procurement review of the 
implementation of the Investment Subprojects by the Beneficiaries, focusing on 
the adherence to the guidelines and procedures set forth in the OM; and  
(c) 
ensure that:  
(i)  
a review of the Project’s performance and outcome is carried out no later 
than 2 years after the Effective Date;  
(ii)  
no later than 3 months thereafter, the ensuing report is furnished to the 
Bank for its review; and 
(iii)  
thereafter, all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives of the Project, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter, are taken. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. 
Project Reports  
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
-10-
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the 
Project Report not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall have its consolidated Financial Statements in 
respect of the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, goods, works and related 
non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, concerning the implementation of Part 1.4 of the 
Project, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Performance-Based Procurement. 
-11-
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject 
to using: (i) Standard Bidding Documents 
agreed with the Bank; and (ii) 
Performance-Based Procurement with 
respect to Part (1.4) of the Project 
 
(b) Shopping, subject to using Standard 
Bidding Documents agreed with the Bank 
 
(c) Community Participation 
 
(d) Direct Contracting, subject to the 
Bank’s prior consent 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s 
Qualifications 
 
(e) Single Source Selection, subject to the 
Bank’s prior consent  
 
(f) Services rendered by Individual 
Consultants 
-12-
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the 
Borrower to: (a) finance the Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions; and (b) finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of  
Expenditures to be  
financed 
(1) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
(including for Investment 
Subprojects) in respect of Part 
1.1 of the Project 
 
5,200,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
(including for Investment 
Subprojects)  in respect of Part 
1.3 of the Project  
 
6,000,000 
100% 
(3) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services in respect 
of Part 1.4 of the Project 
 
15,400,000 
100% 
(4) Goods and consultants’ 
services in respect of Part 2 of 
the Project 
 
1,200,000 
100% 
(5) Goods and consultants’ 
services in respect of Part 3 of 
the Project 
 
900,000 
100% 
-13-
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of  
Expenditures to be 
 financed 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
75,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(7) Unallocated 
 
1,225,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
30,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made 
from the Loan Account for payments made: 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding two million Dollars ($2,000,000) may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures within 12 months before that date but in no 
case before February 06, 2006; or 
(b) 
under Category 1, until and unless a Framework Agreement satisfactory in form 
and substance to the Bank has been entered into between SEGEPLAN and 
MINECO, and has become effective; or 
(c) 
under Category 3, until and unless a Framework Agreement satisfactory in form 
and substance to the Bank has been entered into between SEGEPLAN and CIV, 
and has become effective. 
2. 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2013. 
-14-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
Beginning May 15, 2012 
 
through May 15, 2023 
4.17 % 
On November 15, 2023 
4.09 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
-15-
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
-16-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Beneficiary” means either: (i) a municipality, for Investment Subprojects under Part 1.3 
of the project exclusively; or (ii) a cooperative, producer organization, trade intermediary, 
association or private firm, which all meet the selection criteria, set forth in the OM. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
3. 
“CIV” means Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Infraestructura y Vivienda, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing. 
 
4. 
“Co-Executing Agencies” means collectively SEGEPLAN, CIV, FONDETEL, MINECO 
and FONAPAZ, responsible for the implementation of the Project. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s framework for the 
management of environmental aspects of the Project referred to in Section I.1 (a) (v) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“FONAPAZ” means Fondo Nacional para la Paz, the Borrower’s National Fund for 
Peace established pursuant to the Borrower’s Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 408-91 dated 
June 28, 1991, and Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 244-92 dated April 13, 1992, as such 
accords have been amended and are in effect as of the date of this Agreement. 
8. 
“FONDETEL” means Fondo para el Desarrollo de la Telefonía, the Borrower’s Telecom 
Fund. 
 
9. 
“Framework Agreement” means an agreement referred to in Section I.4 (a) (i) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 17, 2007).  
 
11. 
“ICT” means all Information and Communication Technologies.  
 
12. 
“Investment Coordination Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Investment Subproject” means: 
(a) 
(i) 
either a specific investment in collective or local public productive 
infrastructure; or  
 
-17-
 
(ii) 
any technical assistance in relation to a Subproject, including the costs 
associated with legal incorporation of the Beneficiary, and prepared 
pursuant to Part 1.1 or Part 1.3 of the Project;  
 
(b) 
determined to be eligible under the OM; and  
 
(c) 
to be carried out through the provision of grants therefor, by, or for the benefit of, 
such Beneficiary, utilizing the proceeds of the Loan.  
 
14. 
“IPDF” means the Borrower’s Indigenous Peoples’ Development Framework for the 
Project referred to in Section I.1(a)(v) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Management Board” means the Borrower’s management board for the Program referred 
to in Section I.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as further specified in the OM. 
 
16. 
“MINECO” means Ministerio de Economía, the Borrower’s Ministry of the Economy. 
 
17. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization operating under the laws of the 
Borrower. 
 
18. 
“Operational Manual” and “OM” mean the manual referred to in Section I.1 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
19. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation set 
forth in the OM and referred to in Section II.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, signed and 
dated February 23, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
22. 
“Program” means “Programa Desarrollo Economico desde lo Rural”, the Borrower’s 
program adopted in March 2005, designed to support income generation for the poorest 
through, inter alia, employment generation in productive activities by prioritizing the use 
of public/private partnerships and strengthening territorial planning and implementation 
mechanisms. 
 
23. 
“SEGEPLAN” means Secretaría de Planificación y Programación de la Presidencia, the 
Borrower’s Presidential Secretariat for Planning and Programming responsible for the 
coordination of the Project. 
 
24. 
“Selected Departments” means the departments of San Marcos, Huehuetenango, Sololá,
Quetzaltenango, Totonicapán, Chimaltenango, Sacatepequez and Alta Verapaz in the 
Borrower’s territory where Project implementation is intended to take place. 
 
-18-
 
