CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7470-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(National Program Support for Environment and Natural Resources Management 
Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 29, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 29, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount of fifty million United States Dollars 
($50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1%) of 
the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
2
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of 
this Agreement) have been fulfilled; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower through DENR has designated personnel in adequate 
numbers, with qualifications and experience, and under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for the financial 
management matters under the Project at its Financial Management 
Service Office and its Foreign Assisted Projects Office; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower has approved calendar year 2007’s work program for 
Project; and 
 
(d) 
the Borrower has finalized and adopted the Operations Manual 
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - EPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 
Roxas Blvd. 
 
Manila, Philippines 
4
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN 
 
 
 
Manila  
 
(63-2) 523-9216 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By: /s/ Margarito B. Teves 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Maryse D. Gautier 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Department of 
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) in improving its efficiency and 
effectiveness in its service delivery. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A. Policy Development, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Improving the efficiency of DENR’s organization and operations, 
through the following activities: (a) developing a framework to rationalize DENR’s 
existing overlapping or conflicting policies and administrative orders, and to clarify the 
assignments and approving authorities at the different levels within the DENR’s 
organization; (b) refining the administrative arrangements of DENR’s Environment 
Management Bureau (EMB); and (c) establishing a procurement unit to handle 
procurement matters within DENR and refining the administrative arrangements of 
DENR’s Internal Audit unit.   
 
 
2. 
Strengthening DENR’s service delivery functions, through the following 
activities: (a) conducting surveys to measure clients’ satisfaction with DENR’s service 
delivery; (b) improving access by DENR clients to its data and information, especially in 
regard to regulatory processes and fees, through among other things, strengthening 
DENR’s management information system (MIS); and (c) strengthening the capacity of 
DENR’s Policy and Planning Office to undertake its monitoring and evaluation functions 
for DENR’s operations.  
 
3. 
Developing watershed management plans, land use and demarcation maps for 
watersheds and forest areas, groundwater maps, and geohazard maps of high risk areas.  
 
4. 
Implementing interim risk remedial measures related to abandoned mines, 
geology, and ground water protection; and preparing comprehensive mine rehabilitation 
and remediation plans for priority abandoned mine sites.   
 
5. 
Strengthening DENR’s public awareness and environmental education program. 
 
6
Part B: Integrated Ecosystem Management
Carrying out a program to implement DENR’s integrated watershed and wetlands 
management strategies for targeted watersheds areas facing severe risk of further 
degradation and for sensitive ecological areas.   
1. 
Promoting participatory and integrated watershed ecosystem planning and 
management; and raising integrated ecosystem awareness among the stakeholders in 
critical ecological areas. 
 
2. 
Restoring and rehabilitating priority convergence watersheds; raising public 
awareness of habitat rehabilitation and restoration programs; improving the knowledge of 
the communities, LGUs and DENR local offices in the ecologically degraded areas on 
“rain-forestation”; supporting biodiversity conservation and management within priority 
“protected areas”; and carrying out resource-based assessments in the above-mentioned 
priority “protected areas” to improve conservation planning.  
 
3. 
Supporting sustainable livelihood improvement Sub-projects that enhance the 
ecosystems, conserve biodiversity and increase farmers’ income.  
 
Part C: Environmental and Natural Resource Management
1. 
Strengthening DENR’s regulatory and oversight functions and its capacity in 
implementation of environmental regulations related to air and water quality, waste 
management and environmental impact assessment.  
 
2. 
Strengthening participatory integrated watershed management monitoring 
systems at the LGU and community levels. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing, Institutional, and Other Arrangements
Financing Arrangements. 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project at LGU level, the Borrower shall 
make the proceeds of the Co-financing available to each Participating LGU under a 
Memorandum of Agreement between the Borrower through DENR and said Participating 
LGU (“MOA”) on a grant basis and under conditions acceptable to the Bank and 
consistent with those in this Agreement and the Co-financing Agreement, which shall 
include the provisions of the Annex 2 to this Schedule. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) cause each Participating LGU to perform, in accordance 
with the provisions of the MOA to which said LGU is a party, all of the obligations of 
said LGU therein set forth; (b) take or cause to be taken all actions, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable said LGU to perform such obligations; and (c) not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights under each MOA in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Co-financing; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any MOA or any provision thereof.  
 
Institutional Arrangements. 
4. 
The Borrower through DENR shall maintain throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, with composition, terms of reference, staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
the Project Steering Committee, chaired by the DENR Secretary or his 
designated representative to be responsible for providing policy guidance and leadership 
for implementation of the Project; and    
 
(b) 
the Project Coordination Unit within DENR acting as Secretariat to the 
Project Steering Committee to be responsible for coordination of Project implementation 
and as well as ensuring the submission to the Bank of required Project and financial 
reports. 
 
8
Project Implementation.  
 
5. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual, which 
shall set forth, inter alia, the descriptions of: (i) financial management and disbursement 
procedures consistent with the provisions of Section II.B of this Schedule; (ii) a 
Procurement Manual including procedures consistent with the provisions of Section III 
of this Schedule; institutional arrangements for procurement processing; anti-corruption 
measures; and standard bidding documents; (iii) the Project implementation 
arrangements, and monitoring and evaluation procedures; (iv) eligibility criteria, 
procedures and guidelines for the selection, approval, administration and supervision of 
Sub-projects; (v) the Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework,  Environmental 
Management Plans, and the Environmental Guidelines; (vi) DENR’s action plan for 
implementing its Rationalization Plan; and (vii) selection criteria for a LGU to 
participate in the Project;     
(b) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said Operations 
Manual without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.  In case of any conflict 
between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operations Manual, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
6. 
The Borrower through the Project Coordination Unit shall, (i) furnish to the 
Bank, not later than March 31 in each year, starting March 31, 2008 for review and 
comments, an annual work plan and budget for the implementation of the Project in the 
following year (including a report on the progress of implementing DENR’s 
Rationalization Plan); and (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan and, thereafter, promptly take all actions necessary 
to implement said plan, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter.  
 
7. 
The Borrower through DENR shall: (i) by December 31, 2007, prepare a three 
(3) year forward-looking planning and budgeting strategy which lays out its reform 
benchmarks in the areas of, inter alia, protection of environment, conservation of natural 
resources, rehabilitation of abandoned mines, access to DENR’s administrative and 
regulatory information, and fiduciary oversight; (ii) thereafter furnish said strategy to the 
Bank for review and comments; and (iii) by January 31, 2009, begin to implement said 
strategy taking into account of the Bank’s comments thereon.   
 
8. 
In carrying out Part A1(b) of the Project, the Borrower through DENR shall, by 
December 31, 2009, issue and thereafter implement an administrative order to restructure 
its Environment Management Bureau (EMB) and to staff the restructured EMB, all in 
accordance with DENR’s Rationalization Plan.  
 
9
9. 
In carrying out Part A1(c) of the Project, the Borrower through DENR shall: (i) 
by December 31, 2007, issue and thereafter implement an administrative order to 
establish a procurement unit within DENR, under terms of reference consistent with the 
requirements of the Borrower’s Procurement Reform Act (Republic Act 9184); and (ii) 
by December 31, 2007, issue and thereafter implement an administrative order to enable 
its Internal Audit unit to report directly to the Secretary of DENR, in line with the 
Borrower’s anti-corruption initiatives. 
 
10. 
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower through DENR shall: (i) by 
December 31, 2007, undertake a baseline study to measure client satisfaction with 
DENR’s service delivery; and (ii) by June 30, 2012, undertake a follow-up study to the 
mentioned baseline study to compare the effectiveness of measures undertaken by DENR 
during the Project period to improve client satisfaction in regard to its service delivery. 
 
11. 
In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower through DENR shall, by 
December 31, 2007, develop and immediately thereafter implement an action plan to 
improve DENR’s information management system (MIS) and the public access to 
DENR’s information database.  
 
12. 
The Borrower through DENR shall: (i) by March 31, 2008, engage an external 
firm, with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference, acceptable to the 
Bank, to strengthen DENR’s internal audit services; and (ii) by June 30 and December 31 
of each calendar year, starting June 30, 2008, conduct semi-annual internal audits for the 
Project accounts, in such scope and details acceptable to the Bank and thereafter furnish a 
report to the Bank with its findings and recommendations.    
 
13. 
The Borrower shall ensure that goods and works required for carrying out the 
Project activities beyond the planning stage at the watershed level will not be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Co-financing until DENR has 
established a Watershed Management Council in a respective Watershed Area, with 
composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources set out in the Operations 
Manual, to be responsible for planning and coordination of the Project activities at the 
watershed level.   
 
14. 
By March 31, 2008, the Borrower through DENR shall complete implementation 
of the recommendations in its 2005 audit report in accordance with the Financial 
Management Action Plan, in a manner, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports. 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
10 
 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A.1 of this Section II above, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30, 2010, a mid-term evaluation report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by October 31, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 2, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
11 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General. 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Co-financing shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following provisions: 
 
1. 
Eligibility screening shall not be applied.  However, bids that do not 
contain any of the following documents will not pass the documentary 
compliance check: (i) evidence of the required financial, technical or 
production capability; (ii) audited financial statements; (iii) credit line, or 
cash deposit certificate; (iv) bid security; and (v) authority of the bid 
signatory.   
2. 
In the case of prequalification, if any bidder is denied access to the 
bidding process for reasons unrelated to its financial and technical 
qualifications to perform the contract, prior concurrence of the Bank shall 
12 
 
be sought.  
3. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with prior concurrence of 
the Bank in advance of bidding.  However, the Approved Budget Estimate 
may be disclosed in the advertisement or in the bidding documents.  
4. 
Domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the 
evaluation of bids, and other preferences in effect in the Philippines will 
not be used except with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
5. 
Suppliers and contractors will not be required to purchase only local 
goods or supplies or materials.  
6. 
In case of contracts for prior review, modifications exceeding 
fifteen percent (15%) of contract amount and material changes in the 
conditions during implementation require prior Bank concurrence.   
7. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if 
interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint 
venture with, local firms.  Moreover, foreign bidders shall be allowed to 
bid, even without registration, licensing, and other government 
authorizations, leaving these requirements for after award and before 
signing of contract.   
8. 
For works contract, the experience qualification requirement shall 
be: (i) at least one (1) previous contract at eighty percent (80%) of the 
estimated cost of the contract being procured; and (ii) an annual turnover 
from all works averaged over the last  three (3) years equal to one hundred 
percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the contract being procured. 
(b) Shopping  
(c) Force Account 
(d) Direct Contracting  
(e) Community Participation as further elaborated in the Operations Manual. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely of national consultants. 
 
13 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
14 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications  
(b) Quality-Based Selection  
(c) Single-Source Selection 
(d) Least-cost Selection 
(e) Fixed-budget Selection   
(f) Individual Consultants 
(g) Individual Consultants to be selected on a 
Sole-Source Basis  
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions. 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:   
 
(a) 
all contracts for goods or civil work to be procured based on ICB, Force 
Account, and Direct Contracting, regardless of  their contract value;  
 
(b) 
the first contract for goods or civil works to be procured based on NCB 
and Shopping procedures by each DENR’s bureau and by each regional office of DENR, 
regardless of its contract value;  
 
(c) 
each contract for consultants services to be provided by a firm estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more;  
 
(d) 
each contract for consultants services to be provided by an individual 
consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and  
 
(e) 
all contracts for consultants services procured on Single Source Selection 
basis and Sole-Source basis, regardless of their contract value.   
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General. 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
15 
 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive taxes)
1. Goods, works and 
 consultants’ services, and 
 Operating Costs 
 
50,000,000 
 
100% 
2. Premia for Interest Rate
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
3. Front-end Fee 
 
0
0
Amount due under Section 
2.08 (c) of this Agreement 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after March 19, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures of 
goods, civil works, and consultants’ services under Category 1. 
 
2. 
No withdrawal may be made under this Agreement for any Co-financing or any 
expenditure if a withdrawal is made for such Co-financing or expenditure under the Co-
Financing Agreement, and any Co-financing or expenditure that is financed under the 
Co-Financing Agreement shall not be an Eligible Expenditure under this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
16 
 
ANNEX I 
TO 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Performance Indicators  
 
Project Objective 
Outcome Indicators 
1. The objective of the Project 
is to assist the Borrower’s 
Department of Environment 
and Natural Resources 
(DENR) in improving its 
efficiency and effectiveness in 
its service delivery. 
i) Implementation of DENR’s reform agenda, which includes timely 
actions on the dated covenants, achievement of the key milestones 
and continued progress in implementing the Rationalization Plan.   
ii) 30% improvement in overall client satisfaction with DENR service 
delivery by type of client e.g.  LGU/communities. 
iii) 15% of reduction of total suspended particulate matter levels in 
Metro Manila over the 2007 baseline levels 
iv) 80%  of the Project’s investment targets in rehabilitation, 
ecosystem development and assessments being met  
 
2.  Global Environmental 
Objective 
Ecosystem services are 
enhanced for global and 
additional local benefits 
i) 
106,000 hectares of protected areas, protection forest and wetlands 
in GEF supported sites under effective management by the end  of 
the Project.   
ii) 35% of ecologically sensitive forests (outside protected areas) 
under effective protection.  
iii) 25% decline in the area under kaingin (as measured by no. of 
plots) as a result of project interventions 
Intermediate Results from 
Each Part of the Project 
Results Indicators for Each Part of the Project 
Part A 
Environment and natural 
resources management policies 
plans and practices streamlined 
and supported by enhanced 
service delivery in terms of 
data and information access.   
 
i) Framework developed for the rationalization of environment and 
natural resources management policies and legislation which inter 
alia identifies overlaps and inconsistencies as a basis for clarifying 
and guiding the operations and core functions of DENR.   
ii) Key databases relating to: a) industrial use; b) forests; and c) 
protected areas available on-line for public access, including links 
to forms, procedures and fee schedules relating to regulatory 
processes and service contracts.   
iii) 
Procedures and responsibilities for issuance of tenure 
instruments standardized and streamlined.  
iv) National integrated protected areas system/implementation rules 
and regulations updated and, streamlined and revised policy issued. 
v) Mapping of priority geo-hazard areas completed. 
vi) Comprehensive rehabilitation and remediation plans for 5 
abandoned mines completed. 
vii) Forward planning and budgeting strategy started to be 
17 
 
Intermediate Results from 
Each Part of the Project 
Results Indicators for Each Part of the Project 
implemented which inter alia provides a vision and benchmarks for 
key reforms in DENRs operations.  
viii) 
Interim measures for the rehabilitation of Bagacay mine site 
fully implemented  
Part B 
Effective management systems 
in place to conserve critical 
ecosystems and natural 
resources in the Project areas, 
degraded areas rehabilitated, 
and sustainable use regimes 
initiated and implemented by 
communities and LGUs based 
on integrated ecosystem 
management principles. 
 
i) 
30% of degraded forest in GEF supported sites rehabilitated with 
native species representing the bio-geographic region as identified 
in the WMP. 
ii) At least 30% of degraded forestlands in non-convergence 
watersheds rehabilitated with native species by the end of the 
Project –
iii) 100% of GEF supported protected areas (PA) mainstreamed PA  
management effectiveness tool  
iv) Use of PA management effectiveness tool replicated in 60 % of 
proclaimed PAs nationally. 
v) 60% of targeted communities in GEF supported sites 
implementing micro-catchment plans by the end of the Project. 
vi) 30% of households in communities in GEF supported sites 
adopted livelihood practices promoted by the fourth year of 
Project implementation. 
vii) 75 % of funded activities (by $ value) in GEF supported sites 
implemented by the LGUs and/or other stakeholders. 
viii) Watershed Management Councils, MOAs between DENR and 
Participating LGUs and MOAs between Participating LGUs and 
NGOs in place for all watersheds selected which, inter alia, 
clarifies the devolution of functions related to a) watershed & 
ecosystem management, b) management of communal forests, and 
protected areas.   
ix) Best practices of integrated ecosystem management being 
replicated through information education campaigns in at least 2 
non GEF supported watershed areas.  
x) Payment for ecosystem services schemes operational in at least 
two watershed areas and generating environment and natural 
resources   related service fees and royalties  
Part C 
Appropriate and 
comprehensive environment 
and natural resources 
regulations and standards, 
implemented, monitored and 
enforced. 
 
i) 
10% per annum increase in companies complying with 
environmental standards compared to baseline 
ii) Designation and operationlization of at least 3 water quality 
management areas 
iii) 128 LGUs are implementing three aspects of ecological solid 
waste management 
iv) Monitor 179 private emissions testing centers 
v) Monitor 4,700 companies with permit to operate 
vi) Monitor 1,600 companies operating along waterbodies 
18 
 
Intermediate Results from 
Each Part of the Project 
Results Indicators for Each Part of the Project 
vii) Monitor 101 priority bathing beaches 
viii) 4,216 environmentally critical projects (ECP) obtained 
Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) 
19 
 
ANNEX II  
TO  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
For the purposes of paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
each MOA between the Borrower and a Participating LGU shall include, among others, 
provisions set forth below.    
 
1. 
 Each Participating LGU shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, financial, 
administrative, technical, and agricultural practices and sound social and environmental 
standards, acceptable to the Bank, and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor. 
 
2. 
If a proposed Sub-project involves communities with Indigenous Peoples, prior 
to commencing civil works under a Sub-project, each Participating LGU shall prepare a 
plan that incorporates mechanisms for the informed participation of such peoples in the 
design and implementation of said Sub-project and then implement said plan thereafter in 
the implementation of said Sub-project in accordance with policies and procedures set 
forth in the Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework. 
 
3. 
Each Participating LGU shall undertake an environmental screening for a 
proposed Sub-project according to the provisions of the Environmental Guidelines.  If 
such environmental screening concludes that an environmental impact assessment and an 
environmental management plan are required for the proposed Sub-project, said 
Participating LGU shall prepare the said environmental impact assessment and 
environmental management plan all on the basis of standards satisfactory to the Bank and 
in accordance with the procedures and principles set forth in the Environmental 
Guidelines and thereafter implement the proposed Sub-project in accordance with said 
environmental management plan.  In the event an environment compliance certificate is 
required under Philippine law or regulations, said Participating LGU shall obtain such 
environment compliance certificate from the Borrower’s DENR or its instrumentality at 
the regional level in respect of the activities under said Sub-project. 
 
4. 
Each Participating LGU shall ensure that:   
 
(a) 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Co-financing are procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
said goods are insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the purchaser thereof to 
replace or repair such goods; and  
20 
 
(c) 
said goods, works and services are utilized exclusively for the purpose of 
carrying out the Project. 
 
5. 
Each Participating LGU shall enable the Borrower and the Bank to examine all 
goods, facilities, sites and works included in the Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents. 
6. 
Each  Participating LGU shall ensure that any facilities, equipment and other 
property relevant to the Project shall at all times be operated and maintained, and that all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof shall be promptly made, as needed, all in 
accordance with sound financial, administrative and technical practices. 
 
7. 
Each Participating LGU shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators set forth in 
Annex I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a semi-annual 
report summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above of this paragraph 7, on progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar semester and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the next semi-annual period following such 
date and furnish the same to the Borrower to enable the Borrower to consolidate and 
submit the information to the Bank pursuant to the provisions in paragraph 2 of Section II 
of  Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
8. 
Each Participating LGU shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition of the Participating LGU, including the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
9. 
Each Participating LGU shall have its financial statements for the Project 
referred to above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the LGU.  The audited 
financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the Borrower not later than three 
(3) months after the end of the period for consolidation by the Borrower and submission 
to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of B.3 of Section II of Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
21 
 
10. 
In the event that a Participating LGU engages a non-governmental organization 
(NGO) to assist in the carrying out of any livelihood Sub-projects under Part B.3 of the 
Project, such Participating LGU shall enter into a contract or other appropriate legal 
instruments to set forth the rights and obligations of each party, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
22 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2015  
 
Through November 15, 2026 
4.17% 
On May 15, 2027 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
23 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
24 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Co-financier” means the Global Environment Facility. 
(c) 
“Co-financing” means an amount of seven million dollars ($7,000,000) to be 
provided by the Co-financier to assist in the financing of the Project. 
(d) 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Republic of the Philippines and the Bank and providing for the Co-financing. 
 
(e) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(f) 
“DENR” means the Borrower’s Department of Environment and Natural 
Resources, and any successor thereto. 
(g) 
“Environmental Guidelines” means the environmental guidelines, dated 
November 29, 2006, adopted by the Borrower, which set forth the rules and 
procedures for environmental screening and for the carrying out the 
environmental assessments and preparing environmental management plans for 
the activities to be implemented after the first year implementation during the 
period of Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
(h) 
“Environmental Management Plans” means, collectively, the environmental 
management plans which are a part of (i) the Environmental Assessment 
prepared for the Bagacay abandoned mine site and (ii) the Environmental 
Assessment for all other year 1 activities, each dated November 29, 2006, 
prepared for the activities to be carried out during the first year of the Project 
implementation, which said plans sets out the environmental protection measures 
in respect of such activities, including risk remedial measures related to 
abandoned mine and measures to stabilize and rehabilitate tailings ponds and 
address the risks associated with the tailings ponds rehabilitation, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank. 
 
25 
 
(i) 
“Financial Management Action Plan” means the time-bound action plan prepared 
by DENR on April 25, 2007 to implement the recommendations in its 2005 audit 
report, and referred to in paragraph 14 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
(j) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
 
(k) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and cultural 
identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following 
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural 
resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as 
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different 
from Pilipino, the Recipient’s national language; (iv) presence of customary 
social and political institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented 
production. 
(l) 
“Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework” means the framework, dated December 
7, 2006, adopted by the Borrower, providing procedures, rules, and guidelines 
for: (i) the informed involvement of Indigenous Peoples, through a process of 
informed consultation, in the design and implementation of the Project in 
locations in which such people reside or which they use for their livelihood, and 
(ii) designing and implementing measures to provide benefits which are socially 
and culturally acceptable to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse 
impacts of the Project, as such framework may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(m) 
“LGUs” means Local Government Units, which are political subdivisions of the 
Borrower at the provincial, city, municipal or barangay level, and “LGU” means 
any such Local Government Unit.  
 
(n) 
“Memorandum of Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(o) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs incurred by DENR on account of 
the Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation, which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project, including costs for office 
supplies, repairs of equipment and vehicles, staff travel and per diem; 
consumables; rental of office space and vehicles, fuel costs; but excluding 
salaries and salary supplements of the Borrower’s civil servants.   
26 
 
(p) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 5(a) of Section I 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such manuals may be revised from time to 
time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
(q) 
“Participating LGUs” means the LGUs to be selected to participate in the Project 
according to the selection criteria set forth in the Operations Manual and a 
“Participating LGU” means any of the Participating LGUs. 
 
(r) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(s) 
“Procurement Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 5 of Section I 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(t) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 24, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(u) 
“Project Coordination Unit” means the unit referred to in paragraph 4(b) of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
 
(v) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 4(a) 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
 
(w) 
“Rationalization Plan” means the plan prepared by DENR for institutional 
restructuring in accordance with the Executive order No. 366 issued by the 
Office of the President of the Borrower. 
 
(x) 
“Sub-projects” means, collectively, Sub-projects to be carried out under Part B.3 
of the Project, and the term “Sub-project” means any of the Sub-projects. 
 
(y) 
“Watershed Areas” means the areas identified in the Borrower’s Executive Order 
#192 and referred to in paragraph 13 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as such areas may be updated by the Borrower from time to time . 
 
(z) 
“Watershed Management Council” means the council referred to in paragraph 13 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
