CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7475-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(OSE Modernization & Systems Rehabilitation Project– APL 2) 
 
between 
 
ADMINISTRACIÓN DE LAS OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO (OSE) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 4, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7475-UR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 4, 2007, between ADMINISTRACIÓN DE LAS 
OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  In the event that the Borrower selects 
not to capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not 
later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
- 2 -
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. The Borrower shall carry out 
Part 3 (a) of the Project in coordination with the Gobiernos Departamentales and 
Eligible Communities. 
 
- 3 -
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that Law 
No. 11907 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
expire on December 29, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representatives are, jointly, its President of the Board of 
Directors and its Secretary General. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Administración de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado 
Carlos Roxlo 1275 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
OSE 
 
 
 
 
(598-2) 4000135 
 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
- 4 -
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ADMINISTRACIÓN DE LAS OBRAS  
 
SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO 
 
By /s/ Daoiz G. Uriarte  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
ADMINISTRACIÓN DE LAS OBRAS  
 
SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO 
 
By /s/ Carlos Colacce 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency, coverage and 
sustainability of water supply and sanitation services in Uruguay through: (a) the 
improvement of the Borrowers’ efficiency and effectiveness; (b) maintaining the 
reliability and enhancing the coverage of water supply infrastructure in Montevideo and 
in cities outside Montevideo; and (c) increasing the number of household connections to 
new and existing sewerage systems. 
 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part 1:  Institutional Renewal
(a) 
Strengthen incentives to enhance the Borrower’s efficiency through, 
inter alia: (i) improvement and expansion of the Borrower’s internal and 
external benchmarking system; (ii) design and implementation of the 
Borrower’s code of ethics and business conduct; (iii) compliance with 
any water and sanitation national norms and standards aimed at 
improving the quality of the services provided by the Borrower; and (iv) 
compliance with the Guarantor’s national regulatory accounting 
standards applicable to the water and sanitation sector.  
(b) 
Support to the implementation of the Borrower’s Program VECTOR, 
including the design, modernization and implementation of operational 
systems for the Borrower in the areas of, inter alia: (i) customer service 
improvement; (ii) management of human resources; (iii) integration of 
operational and commercial systems; (iv) financial management and 
procurement; (v) geographic information systems; (vi) the design and 
implementation of a formal change in management communication 
strategy; and (vii) staff training. 
 
(c) 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s regional decentralization process 
through, inter alia: (i) training of the Borrower’s management at the 
regional level; (ii) construction of 10 regional laboratories; (iii) 
construction of 4 regional electro-mechanic maintenance workshops; and 
(iv) construction of 4 regional supply warehouses. 
 
(d) 
Strengthening of the UGA, through, inter alia: (i) appointment of key 
technical staff; and (ii) implementation of environmental management 
systems in selected sewerage treatment plants (including a system to 
manage residuals). 
 
- 6 -
Part 2: Water Supply
(a) 
Carrying out of rehabilitation activities of the Aguas Corrientes’ 
treatment plant, including, inter alia: (i) the construction of 8 rapid 
gravity filters; and (ii) adaptation of tank accelerators (including 
flocculation units and high-rate sedimentation basins). 
 
(b) 
Implementation of the Borrower’s Plan of Action for Unaccounted-for-
Water Reduction Program through, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of pilot 
operations in selected cities of the Guarantor; (ii) formulation of a UFW 
management indicators system; (iii) improvement of the Borrower’s 
metering systems (through a national water meter replacement program 
and operational control centers); (iv) replacement of distribution pipes, 
valves and household connections; (v) detection and repair of leaks; (vi) 
carrying out of consumer awareness campaigns; and (vii) the 
regularization of commercial anomalies and the control of water use in 
informal settlements. 
 
Part 3: Expansion of Sewerage Systems
(a) 
Carrying out of demand-driven sub-projects consisting of, inter alia: (i) 
the construction or expansion of sewerage systems; (ii) in-house 
plumbing installations; and (iii) pilot programs evaluating the impact of 
incentives for individual connections to the sewerage systems, all in 
Eligible Communities located in selected cities of the Guarantor, in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of a program seeking to increase in-house sewerage 
connections in selected cities of the Guarantor through, inter alia, the 
provision of financing to support individual connection costs (including 
in-house reconfiguration costs), in accordance with the criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual. 
 
Part 4. Project Administration and Coordination
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower, promotion of staff 
exchanges and presentation of seminars to assist in the carrying out of 
the supervision of works under the Project. 
(b) 
Carrying out of bi-annual technical audits with respect to Project 
investments in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, 
until completion of the Project, a unit to be responsible for the overall 
coordination and management of the Project (PFE), such unit to maintain 
staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter 
alia, the following responsibilities: 
(a) 
overall responsibility for implementing, planning, coordinating and 
monitoring of Project activities, at the national and regional level; 
 
(b) 
orientation and coordination of the Project staff at the national and 
regional levels;  
 
(c) 
carrying out of the Project’s dissemination and communication strategy; 
 
(d) 
revision and updating of the Project’s Operational Manual; 
 
(e) 
elaboration of the annual operational plans; 
 
(f) 
management of Project procurement and contracting of the required 
goods, works, non-consultant services and consultant’s services; 
 
(g) 
review and clearance of all the contracts necessary for Project execution; 
 
(h) 
carrying out of the financial management of the Project, including 
without limitation, the issuance of financial statements and reports as per 
Section II of this Schedule and the preparation and maintenance of 
administrative, procurement and financial records; 
 
(i) 
preparation and submission to the Bank of: (i) disbursement requests; 
and (ii) Project information and Project management reports in 
accordance with the formats established in the Operational Manual;  
 
(j) 
preparation and submission to the Bank of customized Performance 
Indicators’ monitoring reports, in accordance with the formats 
established for that purpose in the Operational Manual; and 
 
- 8 -
(k) 
provision of assistance and documentation to external independent 
auditors. 
 
2. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, engineering, financial, public utility, technical and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers; 
 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, public utility, technical and environmental 
practices; and 
 
(c) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, shall review and adjust annually to the satisfaction of the Bank, 
the costs of inputs used to produce the in-house sewerage connections referred to 
in Part 3 (b) of the Project. Such adjustment shall be unnecessary if the Bank is 
satisfied that said review reveals no change in such costs. 
 
4. 
Not later than six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall select and 
appoint the following additional members of the UGA team, consisting of: (i) 
two specialists on environmental management issues; and (ii) three executive 
assistants on environmental management issues, all with adequate academic and 
professional credentials acceptable to the Bank. Such team, so staffed, shall 
thereafter be maintained by the Borrower throughout Project implementation. 
 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project, and ensure that the Subprojects are carried out, in 
accordance with: (i) the Operational Manual; (ii) the EA; and (iii) the 
Procurement Plan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of these documents 
without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any conflict 
between the terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail; and 
- 9 -
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof. 
 
C.  
Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the course of Project implementation 
the operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), such 
manual to include, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, reporting, monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project (including the Borrower’s performance, procurement, 
disbursement, financial, social and environmental requirements thereof); 
 
(b) 
the functions and responsibilities of PFE, UGA and the RANC Unit; 
 
(c) 
the administrative rules, criteria and procedures for planning, preparing, 
proposing, contracting, financing, selecting, carrying out and supervising 
the Subprojects, as well as the terms and conditions of the Convenios;
(d) 
the criteria to select the cities, areas or localities referred to in Part 3 (a) 
of the Project; 
 
(e) 
the standards to be followed by the Borrower in the preparation of the 
Project’s progress reports; 
 
(f) 
the EA (including provisions for the adequate treatment of cultural 
property) and the Procurement Plan;  
 
(g) 
the Project monitoring and evaluating guidelines; and 
 
(h) 
the reporting requirements for the internal performance benchmarking 
system referred to in Part 1 (a) of the Project. 
 
D.  
Subprojects
1. 
For purposes of carrying out each Subproject, the Borrower shall, upon approval 
of a Subproject and prior to the initiation of the bidding process for the 
Subproject’s works, enter into an agreement (Convenio) with the corresponding 
Gobierno Departamental (which has municipal jurisdiction over the 
corresponding Eligible Community) and Eligible Community under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
- 10 -
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Convenio in such a manner as 
to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
objective of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce a 
Convenio or any provision thereof. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports and Technical Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators agreed with the Bank.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than three months after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) at least twice a year, starting on the date of this 
Agreement and on every subsequent March 31 and September 30 of each year of 
Project implementation, provide certified information to its staff and customers, 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the Performance Indicators 
relative to, inter alia, access to services, quality of service, operational efficiency, 
financial efficiency and environmental management, as measured by the 
Borrower’s internal performance benchmarking system referred to in Part 1 (a) of 
the Project; and (b) for purposes of certifying the information referred to herein, 
the Borrower shall hire independent auditors on a biannual basis, acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph A.1 herein, the Borrower shall, 
not later than March 31, 2010, carry out a comprehensive mid-term review 
assessment of the Project in form and substance acceptable the Bank, such 
assessment to include, inter alia: (a) an evaluation of the Project as measured 
against the Performance Indicators; (b) the latest technical audit of the Project (in 
accordance with paragraph 6 below), which shall have taken place within the six 
months preceding March 31, 2010; (c) a description of all the investments and 
disbursements carried out by the Borrower up to the date of the assessment; and 
(d) any technical, commercial and environmental studies carried out by the 
Borrower under the Project. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a report, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, reflecting the results, 
suggested course of action and the Borrower’s conclusions of said mid-term 
review assessment. 
- 11 -
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, as soon as the customized Performance 
Indicators’ monitoring reports referred to in Section I.A.1 (j) of this Schedule are 
produced, these are permanently published in the Borrower’s website and 
accessible to its customers. 
 
6. 
For purposes of carrying out the bi-annual technical audits referred to in Part 4 
(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than November 30 of each 
two-year term during Project implementation, starting in the year 2008, hire 
independent auditors under terms of reference substantially equivalent as those 
included in the Operational Manual; and (b) not later than six months after the 
end of each such two-year term, furnish to the Bank a report of the audit by said 
auditors for the corresponding two years, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested including, inter alia, an analysis of: (i) the 
Performance Indicators; (ii) the pilot operations referred to in Part 2 (b) (i) of the 
Project; (iii) the pilot programs referred to in Part 3 (a) of the Project; and (iv) the 
fiduciary and technical arrangements for the carrying out of Part 3 (b) of the 
Project; provided, however that the first audit report to be furnished to the Bank 
as provided herein shall also include the results of the technical audit with respect 
to the Project’s investments carried out by the Borrower during the year 2007. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than fifty days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
each such semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services.   All goods, works and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
- 12 -
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth 
in Part E of this Section III 
(b) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 13 -
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(c) Single-Source selection  
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
E. 
Special Provisions
1. 
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Section 
III or in the Procurement Guidelines, the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of works under National 
Competitive Bidding. The principle and rule of procurement referred to in 
paragraph (c) below shall also govern all procurement of goods, works and non-
consultant services referred to in Part B herein: 
 
(a) 
The time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall be at 
least 30 days.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place.  The 
name of the bidder and total amount of each bid, and of any alternative 
bids, if they have been requested or permitted, shall be read aloud and 
recorded when opened and a copy of this record shall be promptly sent to 
the Bank.  
 
(c) 
The disclosure of information related to the contents of each bid, other 
than as set out in paragraph (b) above, shall not be permitted. 
 
(d) 
The lowest evaluated bid which has been determined by the Borrower to 
be substantially responsive to the bidding documents shall be selected for 
contract award. 
(e) 
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in 
order for a contract to be subsequently awarded. 
 
(f) 
After the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification and evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning 
awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially 
- 14 -
concerned with this process until the successful bidder is notified of the 
award. 
 
(g) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
bidding documents or any documentation related to such bidding 
documents with the Guarantor’s authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
 
(h) 
The Borrower shall award the contract, within the period of validity of 
bids, to the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and 
resources and whose bid has been determined: (i) to be substantially 
responsive to the bidding documents; and (ii) to offer the lowest 
evaluated cost. A bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
2. 
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Section 
III or in the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services 
referred to in Part C herein: 
 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with the 
Guarantor’s authorities as a prerequisite for participating in the selection 
procedure. 
 
(b) 
The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
- 15 -
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, with the 
exception of goods for Part 
3 (b) of the Project 
 
14,300,000 
100% 
 
(2) Works, with the 
exception of works for Part 
3 (b) of the Project 
 
26,000,000 
85% 
(3) Consultant and non-
consultant services, with the 
exception of consultant and 
non-consultant services for 
Part 3 (b) of the Project 
 
3,600,000 
80% 
(4) Goods, works and 
services incurred under Part 
3 (b) of the Project  
 
1,000,000 
60% of Unit Costs A; 60% 
of Unit Costs B; and 60% 
of Unit Costs C; all 
percentages as adjustable 
pursuant to Section I.A.3 of 
this Schedule 
 
(5) Operating Costs 
 
200,000 
100% 
(6) Training 
 
700,000 
100% 
(7) Unallocated 
 
4,200,000 
 
 
(8) Front-end Fee 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(9) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Collars 
 
0 
Amounts payable under 
Section 2.08 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
50,000,000
- 16 -
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
 
(a) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred 
on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including, inter alia,
office supplies, insurance, communication 
expenses, equipment, computer operation and maintenance, supervision 
costs, travel and per diem, as well as reasonable costs of Project 
promotional campaigning at the regional and local levels; and 
 
(b) 
“Training” means the reasonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower 
for the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including, 
inter alia, reasonable costs of travel, subsistence, rental of training 
facilities, and per diem for trainers and trainees, registration fees and 
training materials. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end 
Fee; and 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed four million 
Dollars ($4,000,000) equivalent may be made for payments made within 
the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1) to (6) above. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2013. 
 
Section V. 
Financial Covenants 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, each year, starting in the year 2008, spend an amount 
equivalent to at least 2% (two percent) of its annual investment budget or not less 
than $1,000,000, whichever amount is higher, to replace water distribution pipes 
and valves and connection piping in its water supply system. 
 
- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2012 
 
through April 15, 2022 
 
5 %
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
- 18 -
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 19 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
(1) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(2) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(3) 
“Convenio” means an agreement referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
(4) 
“EA” or “Environmental Assessment” means the document dated April 9, 2007, 
as published and available to the public on the website www.ose.com.uy, which 
contains the environmental and cultural protection measures in respect of the 
Project, including identification of existing environmental conditions and 
potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the carrying out of the 
Project, recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact 
identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified positive impact. 
 
(5) 
“Eligible Community” means an organized group of individuals which meet the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to benefit from a Subproject. 
 
(6) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
(7) 
“Gobierno Departamental” means the government of a Departamento, a
political subdivision of the Guarantor.  
(8) 
“Guarantor” means the República Oriental del Uruguay. 
 
(9) 
“Law No. 11907” means the Guarantor’s Ley No. 11907 of December 19, 1952 
which established the Borrower, and such term also includes the regulations to 
such law, as such law and regulations have been amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
(10) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, dated May 18, 2007, referred to in 
Section I C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(11) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter of even date 
of this Agreement and in the Operational Manual, as agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank.  
 
- 20 -
(12) 
“PFE” means Gerencia de Programas con Financiamiento Externo, the 
Borrower’s Office for the Administration of Programs with External Funding, as 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Resolutions No. 1196/90 of May 16, 
1990, No. 272/01 of March 7, 2001 and No. 428/07 of April 18, 2007. 
 
(13) 
“Plan of Action for Unaccounted-for-Water Reduction Program” means Plan de 
Acción para el Control de las Pérdidas de Agua, the Borrower’s program for the 
reduction of UFW, as set forth in the Borrower’s Resolution No. 1547/05 of 
October 13, 2005. 
 
(14) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004.  
 
(15) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 7, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(16) 
“Program” means the program designed to increase the efficiency, coverage and 
sustainability of water supply and sanitation services in Uruguay through: (a) the 
improvement of the Borrowers’ efficiency and effectiveness; (b) the increase of 
treated water pumping capacity in the city of Montevideo and UFW reductions in 
cities outside Montevideo; and (c) the increase of sewage treatment and the 
design of a strategy for sewerage expansion. 
 
(17) 
“Program VECTOR” means the Borrower’s institutional modernization program, 
as set forth in the Borrower’s Resolution No. 1794/05 dated November 30, 2005, 
as well as in the Borrower’s document entitled Resumen Ejecutivo del Programa 
Vector, Mejora de Gestión y Actualización Tecnológica, dated March, 2007. 
 
(18) 
“RANC Unit” means Unidad de Reducción de Agua No Contabilizada, the 
Borrower’s internal unit for the reduction of UFW, established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Resolutions No. 118/00 dated February 2, 2000 and No. 1304/05 of 
August 31, 2005. 
 
(19) 
“Subproject” means any of the activities referred to in Part 3 (a) of the Project. 
 
(20) 
“UFW” means unaccounted-for water. 
 
(21) 
“UGA” means Unidad de Gestión Ambiental, the Borrower’s Environmental 
Management Unit, as established pursuant to the Borrower’s Resolutions No. 
117/2000 of February 2, 2000, No. 1661/05 of November 1, 2005 and No. 578/06 
of May 17, 2006. 
 
- 21 -
(22) 
“Unit Costs A” means the amount of two hundred and thirty five Dollars ($235) 
per in-house sewerage connection under Part 3 (b) of the Project, where the 
length of the pipeline connection is shorter than five meters long (Obra Corta). 
 
(23) 
“Unit Costs B” means the amount of six hundred and eight Dollars ($608) per in-
house sewerage connection under Part 3 (b) of the Project, where the length of 
the pipeline connection is between five to fifteen meters long (Obra Media). 
 
(24) 
“Unit Costs C” means the amount of eight hundred and seventy seven Dollars 
($877) per in-house sewerage connection under Part 3 (b) of the Project, where 
the length of the connection exceeds fifteen meters long (Obra Larga). 
 
