CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7440-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Mindanao Rural Development Project Phase II) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 3, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 3, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
(the 
Borrower) 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
WHEREAS (A)   the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated June 22, 
1999, describing a program designed to reduce poverty among the rural communities in 
Mindanao, Philippines, by improving their incomes and food security (“the Program”) 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of said Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank assist in the financing of the 
Program, through a series of loans, over a period of approximately fifteen (15) years;   
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank entered into a Loan Agreement dated 
December 14, 1999 to assist in financing phase I of the Mindanao Rural Development 
Project under the Program;   
 
 
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“the Project”), which Project 
forms the second  phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount of eighty three million seven hundred 
fifty two thousand United States Dollars ($83,752,000), as such amount may be 
2
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1%) of 
the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
3
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - EPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 
Roxas Blvd. 
 
Manila, Philippines 
4
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN 
 
(63-2) 526-9990 
 
Manila  
 
(63-2) 523-9216 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By: /s/   Margarito Teves 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Ms. Maryse Gautier 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving livelihood 
opportunities for targeted communities in Mindanao under the Project; and (ii) 
institutionalizing a decentralized system for agriculture and fishery services delivery that 
promotes participation, transparency, and accountability. 
 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part A: Investments for Governance Reform and Program Administration
Carrying out a program to strengthen institutional capacity of DA and 
Participating LGUs in Mindanao in order to operationalize a decentralized agricultural 
service system through the following activities: 
 
1. 
Improving the capacity of Participating LGUs in resources management and 
service delivery in agriculture and fisheries. 
 
2. 
Enhancing the capacity of DA to support Participating LGUs’ agricultural 
planning and development and agricultural research and extension through local 
community participatory process. 
 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of Participating LGUs in the Project implementation 
and   coordination through the provision of technical assistance and operating support. 
 
Part B: Rural Infrastructure Sub-projects
Carrying out a program to support rural infrastructure Sub-projects in order to 
improve access to basic rural infrastructure services by the rural communities in 
Mindanao and to enhance these rural infrastructure’s operation and maintenance 
standards through the following activities:  
 
1. 
Construction and/or rehabilitation of selected farm to market roads and single 
lane bridges, carrying out a program for routine maintenance of such roads, and 
monitoring and evaluation of construction and rehabilitation of such roads. 
 
2. 
Construction and/or rehabilitation of selected community-owned and managed 
run-of-river communal irrigation systems, carrying out a program for routine 
maintenance of such irrigation systems, and monitoring and evaluation of construction 
and rehabilitation of such irrigation systems. 
 
6
3. 
Construction and/or rehabilitation of selected level-2 (communal faucets) rural 
potable water supply systems.  
 
4. 
Undertaking other selected rural infrastructure projects to enhance agricultural 
and fisheries productivity and access to markets by rural communities. 
 
5. 
Carrying out a Performance-based Grant program in the LGUs participating in 
Part B of the Project to promote good governance and enhance local revenue generation 
and to assist in financing of Sub-projects under said Part of the Project.   
 
Part C: Community Fund for Agriculture Development (CFAD) Sub-projects 
Carrying out a program to address diverse investment priorities of rural 
communities, consisting of the financing of CFAD Sub-projects which meet community 
preferences and respond to local priorities, including food security interventions, 
community managed livelihood and agribusiness activities, alternative income-generating 
activities, and small infrastructure.   
 
Part D: Natural Resources Management
Carrying out a program to conserve upland resources, coastal and marine 
biodiversity through the following activities: 
 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the communities, Participating LGUs and national 
agencies involved in the conservation of upland resources, coastal and marine 
biodiversity.      
 
2. 
Introducing and demonstrating sustainable land management practices and 
marine and coastal protection measures to the communities involved in the conservation 
of upland resources, coastal and marine biodiversity through carrying out natural 
resources management Sub-projects.   
 
3. 
Increasing community awareness of direct linkage between upland natural 
resources management and coastal natural resources management.  
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements. 
 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available to 
each provincial Participating LGU, its respective Allocated Amount on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in a Memorandum of Agreement 
(MOA), which shall be entered into between the Borrower, through DA, and each said 
LGU in accordance with the provisions of the Annex 2 to this Schedule. 
 
2.  
With respect to Part B of the Project, the amount allocated to Category (2) in 
paragraph 2 of Section IV of Schedule 2 shall be made available by the Borrower to each 
LGU participating in said Part of the Project to cover fifty percent (50%) of the cost of 
said LGU’s Sub-project, with each said LGU providing its contribution covering the 
other fifty percent (50%) of total cost of the Sub-project (forty percent (40%) in cash and 
ten percent (10%) in kind).  Upon each said LGU meeting the performance targets set 
forth in the Performance-based Grant Agreement between DA and such LGU as certified 
by DOF’s Bureau of Local Government Finance, the Borrower will provide a 
Performance-based Grant, as provided in Category (3) of paragraph 2 of Section IV of 
Schedule 2, to the LGU in an amount equivalent to twenty percent (20%) of cost of said 
LGU’s Sub-project.    
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) cause each Participating Provincial LGU to perform, in 
accordance with the provisions of the MOA to which said LGU is a party, all of the 
obligations of said  LGU therein set forth; (b) take or cause to be taken all actions, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable said LGU to perform such obligations; and (c) not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights under each MOA in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any MOA or any provision thereof.  
 
B. 
Project Management. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
by December 31, 2007, reconstitute the PAB established under the first 
phase of the Program, and thereafter maintain it throughout the period of implementation 
of the Project, with composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources 
8
acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for providing overall direction and oversight for 
the Project implementation.  
 
(b) 
maintain throughout the period of implementation of the Project, with 
composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank: 
 
(i) 
 the Regional PABs within six (6) Regions of Mindanao 
including the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, each 
chaired by the Regional Executive Director of DA and the 
Regional Governor of the Autonomous Region in Muslim 
Mindanao respectively, to be responsible for the regional 
oversight of the Project implementation at the regional level;  
 
(ii) 
the Regional PCOs within the five (5) DA Regional Field Units 
of Mindanao and DAF-ARMM to be responsible for the 
coordination and management of the Project implementation at 
the regional level; and  
 
(iii) 
the PSO to be responsible for providing support to the Regional 
PCOs.   
 
6. 
The Borrower through DA shall, by December 31, 2007, establish and thereafter 
maintain throughout the period of implementation of the Project, an Internal Audit 
Service, with staffing, terms of reference, and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to 
be responsible for conducting an internal audit for the Project accounts by June 30 and 
December 31 of each year, starting June 30, 2008 and furnish a report to DA and the 
Bank upon completion of each said internal audit.     
 
C. 
Project Implementation.  
 
7. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operations Manuals, each of 
which shall set forth, inter alia, the descriptions of: financial management and 
disbursement procedures consistent with the provisions of Section II.B of this Schedule; 
procurement procedures consistent with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule; 
the Project descriptions; performance indicators; the Project implementation 
arrangements, monitoring and evaluation procedures; and anti-corruption measures.   In 
addition to these common provisions, each of the Operations Manuals shall also include, 
inter alia: 
 
(i) 
in the case of the Operations Manual prepared for Part A of the 
Project, descriptions of the capacity building activities and 
participatory process;  
 
9
(ii) 
in the case of the Operations Manual prepared for Part B of the 
Project, the descriptions of: (A) eligibility criteria, procedures 
and guidelines for the selection, approval, administration and 
supervision of Sub-projects; (B) a list of Sub-projects eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan; (C) the conditions 
governing the Performance-based Grants; (d) Sub-project’s 
engineering design, operating and maintenance procedures; and 
(E) the Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework, the Land 
Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy Framework, 
and the Environmental Guidelines;   
 
(iii) 
in the case of the Operations Manual prepared for Part C of the 
Project, the descriptions of: (A) eligibility criteria, procedures 
and guidelines for the selection, approval, administration and 
supervision of Sub-projects; (B) selection criteria for Sub-
projects’ beneficiaries; (C) a list of  items or activities not 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan through 
Sub-projects; (D) the conditions governing the use of CFAD 
Block-Grants; (E) the Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework, the 
Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy 
Framework, and the Environmental Guidelines; and (F) 
grievance redress mechanism; and 
 
(iv) 
in the case of the Operations Manual prepared for Part D of the 
Project, the descriptions of: (A) eligibility criteria, procedures 
and guidelines for the selection, approval, administration and 
supervision of Sub-projects; (B) a list of  items or activities not 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan through 
Sub-projects; (C) selection criteria for LGUs to participate in 
said Part of the Project; (D) the Indigenous Peoples Policy 
Framework, 
the 
Land 
Acquisition, 
Resettlement, 
and 
Rehabilitation Policy Framework, and the Environmental 
Guidelines; (E) Sub-projects’ implementation procedures; and 
(F) guideline for participatory natural resource management 
planning and policy development.  
 
(b) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend, or waive any provision of said Operations 
Manuals without the prior written concurrence of the Bank.  In case of any conflict 
between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operations Manuals, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall, by June 30, 2008, establish baseline data for the Project 
according to the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
10
9. 
The Borrower shall, through PSO: (i) furnish to the Bank, not later than October 
31 in each year, starting October 31, 2007 for review and comments, an annual work 
plan for the implementation of the Project in the following year prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of the Operations Manuals; and (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan and, thereafter, promptly 
take all actions necessary to implement said plan, taking into account the views of the 
Bank on the matter.  
 
10. 
A Sub-project under Parts B, C, and D of the Project shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if:  
 
(a) 
the Borrower has determined in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, including those in the Operations Manuals, that the requirements set out in 
paragraphs 10 through 15 below have been met;  
 
(b) 
the Borrower has entered into a Memorandum of Agreement with a 
provincial Participating LGU in accordance with the provisions in paragraph 1 of Section 
I of this Schedule 2.   
 
(c) 
the Borrower has entered into a Performance-based Grant Agreement 
with a LGU participating in Part B of the Project which shall include, inter alia: (i) 
conditions for said LGU to receive a Performance-based Grant; (ii) implementation 
responsibilities of DA and the LGU in the implementation of the rural infrastructure Sub-
projects under Part B of the Project; (iii) specification of eligible expenditures that may 
be financed from the proceeds of the Performance-based Grant; (iv) financial 
management and audit procedures consistent with the provisions in Section II.B of this 
Schedule; (v) procurement procedures consistent with Section III of this Schedule; (vi) 
monitoring and reporting arrangements, and (vii) the Borrower’s right to suspend the 
right of said LGU to draw down the proceeds of the Performance-based Grant upon 
failure by such LGU to perform any of its obligations under its Performance-based Grant 
Agreement. 
 
11. 
The proposed Sub-project shall be economically and financially viable, and 
technically feasible, and environmentally and socially sound, and shall have been 
designed in accordance with appropriate standards and practices as set forth in each of the 
Operations Manuals prepared for Part B, Part C, and Part D of the Project. 
 
12. 
The LGU shall have the organization, management and resources acceptable to 
the Bank for carrying out of the proposed Sub-project, and to this end, has established a 
PPMIU, MPMIU or municipal Multisectoral Committee, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Annex 2 of this Schedule.  
 
13. 
For a proposed Sub-project to qualify for financing under Parts B, C, or D of the 
Project, the following requirements shall have been met: 
 
11
 
(a) 
(i)   an environmental screening for the proposed Sub-project has been 
carried out  according to the provisions of the Environmental Guidelines; (ii) if applicable 
according to said Environmental Guidelines, an environmental impact assessment, 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been undertaken and an environmental management plan has 
been prepared and carried out in the implementation of said Sub-project, all on the basis 
of environmental standards acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the procedures 
and principles set forth in such Environmental Guidelines; and (iii) in the event an 
environment compliance certificate is required under Philippine law or regulations, such 
certificate has been obtained from DENR or its instrumentality at the regional level in 
respect of the activities under said Sub-project;   
 
(b) 
if the activities under such proposed Sub-project give rise to Displaced 
Persons,  such Displaced Persons have been resettled, compensated, and rehabilitated in 
accordance with a resettlement action plan prepared in accordance with policies and 
procedures acceptable to the Bank, including those in the Land Acquisition, 
Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy Framework set forth in the Operations Manuals;  
 
(c) 
if the activities under such proposed Sub-project involve communities 
with Indigenous Peoples, a plan that incorporates mechanisms for the informed 
participation of such peoples in the design and implementation of such Sub-project, has 
been designed in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank, 
including those in the Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework as set forth in the 
Operations Manuals; 
 
(d) 
in the case of a proposed Sub-project under Part B (1) of the Project, (A) 
the rural roads proposed for inclusion in said proposed Sub-project have been: (i) 
established as a priority project by the Multisectoral Committee; and (ii) designed to link 
with an existing all-weather road and to establish a vital link with existing or potential 
key production areas; and (B) the construction of said rural road is economically justified 
by the projected traffic usage of such road; 
 
(e) 
in the case of a Sub-project under Part B(2) of the Project, the communal 
irrigation system proposed for inclusion in said Sub-project:  
 
(i) 
should not be more than 1000 hectares in service area; and   
 
(ii) 
the farmers who will utilize said irrigation system have actively 
participated in the preparation of the system design and its 
feasibility study;  
 
(f) 
in the case of a proposed Sub-project under Part B(3) of the Project:   
 
(i) 
the proposed site for the water supply scheme to be included in 
said Sub-project has been demonstrated to have a reliable water 
supply throughout the year and water samples obtained from said 
12
site are certified by relevant authorities to be free from 
contamination; and  
 
(ii) 
a community association with adequate resources acceptable to 
Bank has been established to be responsible for managing said 
water supply scheme; 
 
(g) 
in the case of a proposed Sub-project under Part C of the Project:   
 
(i) 
the proposed Sub-project proposed has been prepared and 
submitted by community members organized as a group;  
 
(ii) 
said proposed Sub-project consists exclusively of eligible 
activities set forth in the Operations Manual prepared for Part C 
of the Project; and  
 
(iii) 
at least thirty percent (30%) of the expenditures proposed under 
Part C of the Project is earmarked for activities targeted at 
women and ethnic minorities.   
 
14. 
In respect of each CFAD Block Grant, the concerned LGU in whose jurisdiction 
the Sub-project is to be implemented shall obtain, by a written contract with its Sub-
project beneficiary, or by other appropriate legal means, undertakings of such Sub-project 
beneficiary adequate to protect the interest of such LGU, the Borrower and the Bank, 
including that each Sub-project beneficiary shall undertake to: 
 
 
(a) 
carry out its Sub-project, with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance with appropriate technical, financial, managerial, and agricultural 
development practices, and consistent with sound social and environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and provide promptly as needed the funds, and other resources 
required for the Sub-project; 
 
(b) 
if its respective Sub-project involves the involuntary resettlement of 
Displaced Persons, prior to commencing civil works under said Sub-project, take and 
cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that all such persons shall be resettled 
in accordance with a resettlement action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance 
with the principles and procedures set forth in the Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and 
Rehabilitation Policy Framework;  
 
(c) 
if the respective Sub-project involves communities with Indigenous 
Peoples, a plan that incorporates mechanisms for the informed participation of such 
peoples in the design and implementation of such Sub-project, has been designed and 
implemented thereafter in the implementation of said Sub-project in accordance with 
policies and procedures set forth in the Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework; 
 
13
 
(d) 
if the environmental screening carried out in accordance with principles 
set forth in the Environmental Guidelines concludes that an environmental impact 
assessment and an environmental management plan are required, said environmental 
impact assessment has been undertaken and environmental management plan has been 
prepared and carried out thereafter in the implementation of said Sub-project, all on the 
basis of environmental standards acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the 
procedures and principles set forth in the Environmental Guidelines.  In the event an 
environment compliance certificate is required under Philippine law or regulations, such 
certificate has been obtained from DENR or its instrumentality at the regional level in 
respect of the activities under said Sub-project;   
 
(e) 
procure the goods, works and services required for its respective Sub-
project in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, and utilize said 
goods, works and services exclusively in the carrying out of said Sub-project; 
 
(f) 
take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including such insurance to 
cover the hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation, and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be payable in a currency freely usable by the enterprise to replace or repair 
such goods; 
 
(g) 
enable the Bank, the Borrower, and the concerned Participating LGU to 
inspect the goods and the sites and works included in its respective Sub-project, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(h) 
at all times maintain and operate its equipment and facilities, and from 
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial and industry practices; and 
 
(i) 
maintain adequate records and accounts; and provide all such 
information as the concerned LGU, the Borrower or the Bank may reasonably request 
regarding the management, operations and financial condition of the Sub-project 
beneficiary (including its current year financial statement, records or accounts). 
 
15. 
Each LGU participating in Part C of the Project shall: 
 
(a) 
exercise its rights in relation to each CFAD Block Grant in such manner 
as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with its 
obligations set out in its respective MOA with DA and achieve the purposes of the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
CFAD Block Grant, or any portion thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank. 
14
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation. 
 
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
2.  
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A.1 of this Section II above, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 15, 2010, a mid-term evaluation report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by March 30, 2010, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 2, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one month 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
15
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
16
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General. 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following provisions: 
 
1. 
Eligibility screening shall not be applied.  However, bids that do not 
contain any of the following documents will not pass the documentary 
compliance check: (i) evidence of the required financial, technical or 
production capability; (ii) audited financial statements; (iii) credit line, or 
cash deposit certificate; (iv) bid security; and (v) authority of the bid 
signatory.   
2. 
In the case of prequalification, if any bidder is denied access to the 
bidding process for reasons unrelated to its financial and technical 
qualifications to perform the contract, prior concurrence of the Bank shall 
17
be sought.  
3. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with prior concurrence of 
the Bank in advance of bidding.  However, the Approved Budget Estimate 
may be disclosed in the advertisement or in the bidding documents.  
4. 
Domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the 
evaluation of bids, and other preferences in effect in the Philippines will 
not be used except with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
5. 
Suppliers and contractors will not be required to purchase only local 
goods or supplies or materials.  
6. 
In case of contracts for prior review, modifications exceeding 
fifteen percent (15%) of contract amount and material changes in the 
conditions during implementation require prior Bank concurrence.   
7. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if 
interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint 
venture with, local firms.  Moreover, foreign bidders shall be allowed to 
bid, even without registration, licensing, and other government 
authorizations, leaving these requirements for after award and before 
signing of contract.   
8. 
For works contract, the experience qualification requirement shall 
be: (i) at least one (1) previous contract at eighty percent (80%) of the 
estimated cost of the contract being procured; and (ii) an annual turnover 
from all works averaged over the last  three (3) years equal to one hundred 
percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the contract being procured. 
(b) Shopping  
(c) Community Participation in Procurement under Part C of the Project 
following procedures set forth in the Operations Manual prepared for Part C 
of the Project.   
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
18
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Selection based on the Consultants Qualifications 
(c) Single Source Selection  
(d) Individual Consultants  
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions. 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:   
 
(a) 
the first contract for goods and works procured in each Region in each 
year, regardless its procurement method or contract value;  
 
(b) 
each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more;  
 
(c) 
the first contract for consultants services procured based on any 
procurement method set forth in paragraph C of this Section III, regardless of its contract 
value; 
 
(d) 
each contract for consultants services to be provided by a firm estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more;  
 
(e) 
each contract for consultants services to be provided by an individual 
consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and  
 
(f) 
all contracts for consultants services procured on Single Source Selection 
basis, regardless of contract value.   
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
19
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
service, and Operating Costs 
under Parts A and D of the 
Project 
 
7,000,000 
 
100% 
(2) Civil Works   
 
(a) under Parts B1, B2, and B4 
of the Project 
 
(b) under Part B3 of the Project  
40,000,000 
 
3,000,000 
 
50% 
 
70% 
(3) Performance-based Grants 
Under Part B of the Project  
 
15,752,000 
 
100% of the Performance-based 
Grant amount disbursed 
 
(4) CFAD Block Grants  
Under Part C of the Project 
 
18,000,000 
 
100% of CFAD Block Grant 
amount disbursed  
 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.08 (c) of this Agreement 
(6)  Front-end fee 
                   0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
83,752,000
20
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2006, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1),  (2)(a), and (2)(b) above.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
21
 
Annex I to Schedule 2  
 
Project Performance Indicators  
 
Project Objective 
Project Outcome Indicators 
Overall Program Purpose: 
Improved incomes and food security in the 
targeted rural communities within the 25 
provinces of Mindanao, from implementation 
of better targeted and sustainable agricultural 
and fisheries-related rural development and 
marine biodiversity conservation program, 
and improved LGU institutional, management 
and financial systems.    
 
The objectives under this Project: 
(i) improve livelihood opportunities for  
targeted communities; and (ii) institutionalize 
a decentralized system for agriculture and 
fisheries service delivery that promotes 
participation, transparency and accountability. 
 
Average household incomes of 
beneficiary communities 20% higher 
than baseline and 10% higher than 
control group.  
 
Intermediate Outcomes 
Intermediate Outcome Indicators 
Part A: Investments for Governance 
Reform and Program Administration 
 
National Government/LGU institutional 
linkages and framework for devolved services 
strengthened.  
 
70 % of participating LGUs rate their 
ability to better plan and implement 
investment programs (control systems, 
planning, supervision) as satisfactory or 
better, attributing  this to project  
 
15% and 35% of target beneficiaries 
report significant improvement in LGU 
service delivery, at mid term and at the 
completion of the Project, respectively.   
 
15% increase (compared to baseline) in 
expenditures for agricultural 
investments among participating LGUs 
by the end of the Project. 
80% of provincial and municipal LGUs 
adopted resource generation, allocation, 
utilization and accountability measures 
at the end of the Project.   
 
22
Part B: Rural Infrastructure 
Improved access and increased stock of 
quality rural infrastructure 
Travel time in targeted areas reduced by 
at least 30% at the end of the Project 
compared to baseline. 
 
Savings in passenger and produce 
transport costs increased by at least 
10% at the end of the Project.  
 
Average cropping intensity increased to 
a range of 150% to 180% compared to 
baseline at the end of the Project. 
 
Time to fetch water reduced by 65% 
over baseline by the end of the Project. 
 
At least 50% increase in the number of 
households reporting reduced incidence 
of water-borne diseases by the end of 
the Project.  
 
At least 80% of Participating LGUs 
have increased their revenues over 
baseline by at least 5% at the 
completion of the Project. 
Part C: CFAD  
Increased household income for vulnerable 
groups.  
 
Average household incomes of 
beneficiary communities 20% higher 
than baseline and 10 % higher than 
control group. 
 
At least 30% of CFAD allocations are 
accessed by Indigenous Peoples and 
women by the end of the Project. 
Part D: Natural Resource 
Management 
10% decrease in siltation and 
sedimentation in coastal areas, as a 
result of better land management 
practices. 
 
20% increase in public awareness and 
community participation in better land 
management practices, and coastal and 
marine biodiversity conservation. 
23
Annex II to Schedule 2 
 
For the purposes of paragraph A.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each 
Memorandum of Agreement between the Borrower and a Participating LGU shall 
include, among others, provisions set forth below.    
 
1. 
Each Participating LGU:  
 
(a) 
shall, if it is a provincial LGU, establish and, thereafter, maintain a 
provincial planning, management, and implementation unit (PPMIU) throughout the 
period of Project implementation; or (ii) if it is a municipal LGU, maintain throughout 
the period of Project implementation its municipal planning, management, and 
implementation unit (MPMIU), in either case, with composition, terms of reference, 
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for supporting 
project implementation activities, preparing annual work plans and budgets, undertaking 
monitoring and evaluation and overall accounting and financial management; and 
 
(b) 
shall, for Part C of the Project, establish and, thereafter, maintain 
throughout the period of Project implementation, with composition, terms of reference, 
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank as set out in the Operations Manual 
prepared for Part C of the Project, a municipal Multisectoral Committee to be responsible 
for supporting implementation of said Part of the Project.   
 
2. 
Each Participating LGU shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, financial, 
administrative, technical, and agricultural practices and sound social and environmental 
standards, acceptable to the Bank, and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor. 
 
3. 
If a proposed Sub-project involves the involuntary resettlement of Displaced 
Persons, prior to commencing civil works under said Sub-project, each Participating 
LGU shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that all such 
persons are resettled in accordance with a resettlement action plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the Land Acquisition, 
Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy Framework. 
 
4. 
If a proposed Sub-project involves communities with Indigenous Peoples, each 
Participating LGU shall prepare a plan that incorporates mechanisms for the informed 
participation of such peoples in the design and implementation of said Sub-project and 
implement said plan thereafter in the implementation of said Sub-project in accordance 
with policies and procedures set forth in the Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework. 
 
5. 
Each Participating LGU shall undertake an environmental screening for a 
proposed Sub-project according to the provisions of the Environmental Guidelines.  If 
24
such environmental screening concludes that an environmental impact assessment and an 
environmental management plan are required for the proposed Sub-project, said 
Participating LGU shall prepare the said  environmental impact assessment and 
environmental management plan all on the basis of standards satisfactory to the Bank and 
in accordance with the procedures and principles set forth in the Environmental 
Guidelines and thereafter implement the proposed Sub-project in accordance with said 
environmental management plan.  In the event an environment compliance certificate is 
required under Philippine law or regulations, said Participating LGU shall obtain such 
environment compliance certificate from the Borrower’s DENR or its instrumentality at 
the regional level in respect of the activities under said Sub-project. 
 
6. 
Each Participating LGU shall ensure that:   
 
(a) 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan are procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
said goods are insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the purchaser thereof to 
replace or repair such goods; and  
 
(c) 
said goods, works and services are utilized exclusively for the purpose of 
carrying out the Project. 
 
7. 
Each Participating LGU shall enable the Borrower and the Bank to examine all 
goods, facilities, sites and works included in the Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents. 
 
8. 
Each  Participating LGU shall ensure that any facilities, equipment and other 
property relevant to the Project shall at all times be operated and maintained, and that all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof shall be promptly made, as needed, all in 
accordance with sound financial, administrative and technical practices. 
 
9. 
Each Participating LGU shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators set forth in 
Annex I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a semi-annual 
report summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above of this paragraph 7, on progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar semester and setting out the 
25
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the next semi-annual period following such 
date and furnish the same to the Borrower to enable the Borrower to consolidate and 
submit the information to the Bank pursuant to the provisions in paragraph 2 of Section II 
of  Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; and Audits. 
 
10. 
Each Participating LGU shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition of the LGU, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
11. 
Each Participating LGU shall have its financial statements for the Project 
referred to above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the LGU.  The audited 
financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the Borrower not later than three 
(3) months after the end of the period for consolidation by the Borrower and submission 
to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of B.3 of Section II of Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
Sub-projects under Part B.1 of the Project  
 
12. 
Each Participating LGU that proposes to carry out a Sub-project under Part B.1 
of the Project shall: (a) conduct annual routine maintenance for the road networks 
rehabilitated under Part B.1 of the Project; and from the sixth year after the completion of 
construction of the rural roads under Part B.1 of the Project, conduct periodic 
maintenance on such rural roads, all in accordance with a maintenance program 
(including maintenance standards and section of road networks) agreed with the 
Borrower and the Bank before a proposed Sub-project becomes eligible for financing 
under said Part of the Project; and (b) allocate funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for said maintenance.   
 
Sub-projects under Parts B, C, and D of the Project  
 
13. 
Each Participating LGU that proposes to carry out a Sub-project under Parts B, 
C, and D of the Project, shall disseminate information to the public (including the 
maintenance of a bulletin board) on all Sub-project proposals within its jurisdiction 
(including those approved and rejected under this Project) and the status of ongoing Sub-
projects, all in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank. 
 
26
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2015  
 
Through May 15, 2026 
4.17% 
On November 15, 2026 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
27
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
28
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each Participating LGU at the 
provincial level, an amount of the Loan allocated by the Borrower to said 
Participating LGU pursuant to the methodologies and criteria set out in each of 
the Operations Manual and paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be utilized by said LGU for purposes of carrying out the 
Project in its jurisdiction.  
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“CFAD” means the Community Fund for Agricultural Development. 
 
(d) 
“CFAD Block Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a CFAD Block Grant beneficiary 
for the purposes of carrying out a CFAD Sub-project under Part C of the Project, 
and the term “CFAD Block Grants” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(e) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
(f) 
“DA” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture and any successor 
thereto. 
 
(g) 
“DAF-ARMM” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture and Fisheries 
of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao and any successor thereto. 
(h) 
“DENR” means the Borrower’s Department of Environment and Natural 
Resources, and any successor thereto. 
(i) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter (B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
(j) 
“Environmental Guidelines” means the environmental guidelines, dated June 9, 
2006, adopted by the Borrower, which set forth the rules and procedures for the 
carrying out the environmental assessments and preparing environmental 
29
management plans for the Sub-projects to be implemented under the Project 
during the period of the Project implementation, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
(k) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
 
(l) 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs incurred by the 
Borrower’s PSO and the Regional PCOs on account of the Project 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, which expenditures would not have 
been incurred absent the project, including costs for office supplies, repairs of 
equipment and vehicles, staff travel; rental of office space, fuel costs, and costs 
of contractual staff and remuneration of staff seconded to the PSO and the 
Regional PCOs for Project support and coordination, but excluding the salaries of 
the Borrower’s civil servants.   
(m) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and cultural 
identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following 
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural 
resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as 
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different 
from Pilipino, the Recipient’s national language; (iv) presence of customary 
social and political institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented 
production. 
(n) 
“Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework” means the framework, dated June 9, 
2006, adopted by the Borrower, providing procedures, rules, and guidelines for: 
(i) the informed involvement of Indigenous Peoples, through a process of 
informed consultation, in the design and implementation of the Project in 
locations in which such people reside or which they use for their livelihood, and 
(ii) designing and implementing measures to provide benefits which are socially 
and culturally acceptable to them, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse 
impacts of the Project, as such framework may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(o) 
“Internal Audit Service” means the internal audit service referred to in paragraph 
6 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(p) 
“Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy Framework” means 
the framework, dated October 4, 2006, adopted by the Borrower, providing 
procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) the involuntary taking of land and other 
assets from Displaced Persons; (ii) resettlement and rehabilitation of, and 
compensation to, Displaced Persons; and (iii) reporting and monitoring 
30
arrangements to ensure compliance with such framework, as such framework 
may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
(q) 
“LGUs” means Local Government Units, which are political subdivisions of the 
Borrower at the provincial, city, municipal or barangay level, within the twenty-
seven (27) provinces of Mindanao, and “LGU” means any such Local 
Government Unit.  
 
(r) 
“Memorandum of Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph A.1 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(s) 
“MPMIU” means the municipal planning, management, and implementation unit 
referred to in paragraph 1(a) of Annex II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(t) 
“Multisectoral Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 1(b) of 
Annex II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(u) 
“Operations Manuals” means, collectively, the manuals prepared for each of Part 
A, Part B, Part C, and Part D of the Project, each dated October 2006,  and 
referred to in paragraph 7 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such 
manuals may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
(v) 
“PAB” and “Program Advisory Board” mean the advisory board referred to in 
paragraph 5(a) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
(w) 
“Participating LGUs” means the LGUs selected to participate in the Project in 
accordance with the Borrower’s document entitled Geographical Coverage and 
LGU Selection Criteria, and “Participating LGU” means any of the Participating 
LGUs. 
 
(x) 
“Performance-based Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Participating LGU to provide an 
additional financing for carrying out a Sub-project under Part B of the Project, in 
an amount equivalent to twenty percent (20%) of the cost of said Sub-project 
upon LGU’s meeting the performance targets set forth in the Performance-based 
Grant Agreement, and the term “Performance-based Grants” means, collectively, 
the plural thereof. 
 
(y) 
“Performance-based Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 10(c) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(z) 
“PPMIU” means the provincial planning, management, and implementation unit 
referred to in paragraph 1(a) of Annex II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
31
(aa) 
“Program” means the Borrower’s Mindanao Rural Development Program as set 
out in the letter from the Borrower referred to in paragraph (A) of the Preamble 
to this Agreement.  
 
(bb) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(cc) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 8, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(dd) 
“PSO” and “Program Support Office” mean the office referred to in paragraph 
5(b)(iii) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(ee) 
“Regions” means the six (6) Regions of Mindanao, including Zamboanga 
Peninsula (Region 9), Northern Mindanao (Region 10), Davao (Region 11), 
Soccsksargen (Region 12), Caraga (Region 13) and the Autonomous Region in 
Muslim Mindanao, and the term “Region” means any of the Regions. 
 
(ff) 
“Regional PABs” and “Regional Advisory Boards” mean the advisory boards 
referred to in paragraph 5(b)(i) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(gg) 
“Regional PCOs” and “Regional Program Coordination Offices” mean the 
offices referred to in paragraph 5(b)(ii) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
(hh) 
“Sub-projects” means collectively, Sub-projects carried out under Parts B, C, and 
D.2 of the Project, and the term “Sub-project” means any of the Sub-projects.
 
