CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7486-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Non-Communicable Diseases Prevention Project) 
 
between 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 13, 2007  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7486-UR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 13, 2007, between the REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL 
DEL URUGUAY (“The Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty five million and three 
hundred thousand Dollars ($25,300,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
- 2 -
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. (a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, 
the Borrower, through MSP, shall carry out the Project, in technical partnership 
with DIGESA, ASSE and DIGESE, and with the assistance of the PSCU, all in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
- 3 -
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 
4.01. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on February 28, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Colonia No. 1089, Tercer Piso 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable:  
Telex:  
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
MINECON 
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo Uruguay (59-82) 1712-2688 
 
5.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Danilo Astori 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s efforts to further 
strengthen its health delivery services and the current health policy framework for NCD, 
through the expansion of the access and quality of primary health care services related to 
NCD’s early detection, as well as the provision of specialized medical care to avoid or 
reduce exposure to NCD risk factors and their health effects. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part 1: Strengthening of the MSP’s Capacity to Address the Borrower’s Changing 
Epidemiological Profile.
(a) 
Development of a health intelligence information system, focusing on 
optimizing information systems, including epidemiological surveillance and health 
monitoring and evaluation systems, with a special focus on NCD, to ultimately enhance 
DIGESA’s capacity for health policy formulation, through: (i) the creation of an 
inventory of existing databases within the Borrower’s health sector; (ii) the design and 
implementation of an integrated health insurance beneficiary database that would be 
actualized monthly; (iii) the strengthening of the individual databases after the inventory  
referred to in (i) above is concluded to enhance their quality, completeness, and 
connectivity; (iv) the development of additional databases based on the needs identified 
in the same inventory referred to in (i) above; (v) the modernization and consolidation of 
a public health surveillance system, including NCD and its risk factors; (vi) the 
strengthening of the response capacity of selected DIGESA departmental units; and (vii) 
the financing of eligible Subprojects for the development of investigative capacity on 
epidemiological surveillance and disease control (the Research Subprojects). 
 
(b) 
Development of a national strategy of health promotion, aimed at 
promoting healthy lifestyles and NCD prevention, through: (i) the provision of training, 
equipment and rehabilitation of existing technological infrastructure for the MSP; (ii) the 
creation of the Fund for a Health and Inclusive Uruguay, for the financing of eligible 
Subprojects to strengthen disease prevention and health promotion at the Department 
level (the Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Subprojects); (iii) the carrying out of 
communication campaigns to educate the public on NCD risk factors; and  (iv) the 
development of NCD prevention programs with a focus on vertical (promotion of healthy 
lifestyles) and horizontal prevention (promotion in settings that foster social 
participation). 
 
(c) 
Strengthening MSP’s capacity to create sound regulatory frameworks 
affecting essential NCD programs, to ensure their adequate enforcement, and to use 
- 6 -
monitoring and management systems to enhance their effectiveness and efficiency, 
through: (i) the provision of technical assistance for the review and optimization of the 
current regulatory framework; and (ii) the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment to entities responsible for the certification and quality accreditation of NCD 
medical care procedures at the ambulatory level. 
 
Part 2: Improve Quality of Primary Care Services for Prevalent NCD.
(a) 
Enhancement of technological infrastructure of primary health care 
facilities, as well as secondary referral centers, through the purchase of the necessary 
medical equipment for the detection and treatment of NCD and other pathologies. 
 
(b) 
Development and implementation of an efficient monitoring and 
management system aimed at improving the efficiency of primary health care, with 
special emphasis on NCD, through: (i) the strengthening of existing production 
information and monitoring systems; (ii) the adoption of standards for quality assurance 
of care; and (iii) the creation of external certification mechanisms to ensure quality health 
care standards. 
 
(c) 
Strengthening of the technical capacity of primary health care public 
providers in health promotion, screening, prevention and management of priority NCD, 
as well as increasing the use of primary health care services for NCD among low-income 
populations, through the development and implementation of a human resource 
development program for primary health care teams, including administrative and 
technical personnel, to reorient the health care model towards NCD prevention, health 
promotion activities and quality treatment standards, including the creation of a virtual 
campus to improve access to continuing education for health teams. 
 
Part 3: Implementation of the Previniendo Program
Making Capitation Payments for PPI services financed by the Previniendo 
Program to the Eligible Population listed in each DHIE Beneficiary Registry. 
 
Part 4: Project Management
Strengthening of the PSCU and other government agencies’ capacity, through the 
provision of technical assistance, necessary goods and financing of operating costs and 
audits. 
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements. 
A. 
Subsidiary Agreements: 
 
1. 
For the purposes of implementing Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
through DIGESA, enter into an agreement (the Umbrella Agreement), 
satisfactory to the Bank, with each participating DHIE, setting forth the technical, 
financial, administrative and fiduciary aspects of the Borrower’s and DHIE’s 
participation in the implementation and use of funds under the Previniendo Program, 
including, inter alia,: (i) the regulations pertaining to the enrolment system; (ii) the 
regulations pertaining to the billing of Capitation Payments; (iii) the Nomenclador; and 
(iv) the Coverage and Sanitary Goals; 
 
(b) 
every year, by no later than six months after the Effective Date for the first 
year of the Project, and by no later than January 1 thereafter, enter into a performance 
agreement (the Annual Performance Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, with each 
participating DHIE, setting forth annual targets for the Previniendo Program, work 
programs and resource requirements for the implementation of the Project, as well as the 
agreed prices for the services included in the Nomenclador, all on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
cause each participating DHIE (through the respective Umbrella 
Agreement) to enter into an agreement (or other formal agreement when the provider is 
public), satisfactory to the Bank, with each Authorized Health Care Provider (Health 
Care Provider Agreement), setting forth, inter alia, the participating DHIE’s payment 
mechanisms with respect to each of the Authorized Health Care Providers; and 
 
(d) 
(i) exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under each Umbrella 
Agreement and each Annual Performance Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the objective of the Project; (ii) cause each 
participating DHIE to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Health 
Care Provider Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project; and (iii) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Umbrella 
Agreement, any Annual Performance Agreement or any of their provisions. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of carrying out Parts 1(a)(vii) and 1(b)(ii) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
- 8 -
(a) 
enter into an agreement (the “Subproject Agreement”), with each 
Beneficiary, substantially in accordance with the terms of the Model Subproject 
Agreement and including, inter alia, the Borrower’s obligation to make part of the Loan 
proceeds available to the Beneficiary in the form of grants for the purposes of financing a 
Subproject and the Beneficiary’s obligation to: (i) use the proceeds of the grant 
exclusively for carrying out the Subproject; (ii) have the goods and services for the 
Subprojects be procured in compliance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and (iii) abide by the technical and environmental practices and systems 
required for the Subprojects as set forth in the Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under each of the 
Subproject Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the 
Subproject Agreements, or any of their provisions; and 
 
(c) 
ensure, before disbursing funds under any of the Subprojects, that the 
respective Subproject Agreement has been signed on behalf of the parties thereto, all in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the 
Operational Manual. 
 
B. 
Other Arrangements: 
 
1. 
For the purposes of implementing Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a list 
of eligible health services and activities (the Nomenclador) to be provided by Authorized 
Health Care Providers. 
 
(b) 
develop a matrix to record the percentage of the Eligible Population that 
has received the initial screening and the percentage of the Eligible Population receiving 
the PPI, for the purposes of monitoring whether the Coverage and Sanitary Goals have 
been met and of transferring the Capitation Payment on a periodic basis to the 
participating DHIEs, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower and the Bank shall jointly review once every year the Capitation 
Payment amount and the eligible services and activities included in the Nomenclador,
and adjust as necessary in a manner satisfactory to both the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall make Capitation Payments available to eligible DHIEs, but 
only after said eligible DHIE has fulfilled the requirements set forth in Section I.A.1(a) 
and (b) of this Schedule. Such Capitation Payments shall be made in the following 
manner:  
 
- 9 -
(a) 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, during the first 
nine months after the signature of the relevant Annual Performance Agreement, the 
disbursement of the Capitation Payments would be made at 100% on the basis of a list of 
the Eligible Population extracted from the DHIE Beneficiary Registry, certified and 
validated by the Borrower.  
 
(b) 
For month ten and thereafter, the Borrower shall disburse 100% of said 
Capitation Payment on a monthly basis, as soon as: (i) the participating DHIE has sent to 
the Borrower the registry with the Eligible Population enrolled in the Previniendo 
Program as of the previous month, and the Borrower has certified and validated said 
registry; and (ii) the Borrower has verified that the participating DHIE has met the 
Coverage and Sanitary Goals. In the event that the participating DHIE has not met the 
Coverage and Sanitary Goals, the disbursements would be adjusted according to the 
methodology outlined in the Operational Manual. 
 
(c) 
For the purposes of the certification and validation procedure referred to in 
3(a) and (b) above, the Borrower shall appoint and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project, auditors (Concurrent Auditors) responsible for carrying out 
concurrent control and review and performing quarterly (or any other interval acceptable 
to the Bank) audits on the Coverage and Sanitary Goals, the DHIE Beneficiary Registry, 
and the Previniendo Registry, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain and strengthen, until completion of the Project, a unit within 
MSP (the PSCU), responsible for the management, coordination, supervision, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
cause such unit to have a structure, responsibilities, and key staff with 
functions, experience, responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank as 
described in the Operational Manual, including: a manager, and procurement and 
financial management specialists. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of: (a) 
the Environmental Assessment; and (b) a manual (the “Operational Manual”), 
satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: (i) the procedures for the 
carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (ii) the criteria for the approval, 
implementation and monitoring of the Subprojects; (iii) the criteria, detailed rules and 
procedures for the Capitation Payments, including the methodology for adjusting said 
payments based on the performance of the participating DHIE with respect to Coverage 
and Sanitary Goals; (iv) draft models for the Umbrella, Health Care Provider and Annual 
Performance Agreements; (v) the organizational structure of the Project (including the 
role and responsibilities of DIGESE, ASSE, DIGESA and each of the DHIEs); (vi) the 
Project procurement and financial management requirements and procedures; (vii) the 
technical, financial, administrative and fiduciary aspects of the Previniendo Program; and 
- 10 -
(viii) the indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation.  In case of any 
inconsistency between any provision of the Operational Manual and this Agreement, the 
provision of this Agreement will prevail. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III.
Procurement.
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Non-Consultant Services. 
All goods and non-consultant services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
- 11 -
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant 
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consultant services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Limited International Bidding 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding 
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Least Cost Selection 
(c)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  Single-source Selection 
(e)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
- 12 -
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Special Provisions 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Section, the Procurement Guidelines or the Consultant Guidelines, the following 
provisions shall govern the procurement of goods, non-consultant services and 
consultants’ services, where applicable, under this Section. 
 
(a) 
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award. 
 
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive 
bidding. 
 
(c) 
Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for bidding to be 
registered with local authorities, provided, however, that the information to be requested 
from such bidders is of such nature that it will not discourage their participation. 
 
(d) 
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in 
order for a contract to be subsequently awarded. 
 
(e) 
After the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification, and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations concerning 
awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other persons not officially 
concerned with this process until the publication of contract award (except as provided in 
paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). 
 
(f) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
bidding documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with 
Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure. 
 
(g) 
There shall be no preference for domestic contractors. 
 
(h) 
The prices of contracts for consultants’ services over one year duration 
may be adjusted. 
 
- 13 -
(i) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with Uruguayan authorities as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection criteria. 
 
(j) 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, 
requests for expressions of interest, the evaluation report of bids and proposals, and 
contract awards of all goods, non-consultant, and consultants’ services, as the case may 
be, shall be published in a web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006), as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) Goods (except as covered 
by Category (3) below) 
13,500,000 
82% 
(2) 
Consultant 
and 
non-
consultant services, training 
and operating costs (except as 
covered 
by 
Category 
(3)
below) 
6,300,000 
100% 
(3) Goods and services for 
Subprojects under Parts 
1(a)(vii) and 1(b)(ii) of the 
Project 
800,000 
100% 
(4) Capitation Payments under 
Part 3 of the Project 
3,800,000 
100% 
(5) Front-end Fee 
-0- 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement 
- 14 -
in accordance with Section 2.07 
(b) of the General Conditions 
(6)  Premium for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
-0- 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.08 
(c) 
of 
this 
Agreement 
(7) Unallocated 
900,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
25,300,000 
 
For the purposes of this schedule, the term: 
 
(a) 
“Training” means the reasonable non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities (including 
workshops, conferences and seminars) under the Project, including travel costs, per diem 
of trainers, facilitators and stakeholders, and training materials. 
 
(b) 
“Operating costs” means the reasonable costs of specialized staff and 
sundry recurrent expenses directly related to the performance of the Project activities, 
which would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals under categories (1) through (3) set forth in the table in Part A of the 
previous section, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,530,000 equivalent, may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 15, 2007 but not earlier 
than 12 months from the date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under the 
Project; 
 
(b) 
for payments under Category (3) set forth in the table in Part A of the 
previous Section, unless the fund referred to in Part 1(b)(ii) of Schedule 1 of this 
Agreement has been created and its operational; and 
 
(c) 
for payments under Category (4) set forth in the table in Part A of the 
previous Section, unless Concurrent Auditors have been appointed. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2012 
 
through April 15, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of 
such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
- 16 -
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 17 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions
1. 
“Annual Performance Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“ASSE” means Administración de los Servicios de Salud del Estado, the 
Borrower’s Health Administration Services. 
3. 
“Authorized Health Care Providers” means all public and private health care 
providers owned or contracted by DHIE (as hereinafter defined) that meet the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined). 
4. 
“Beneficiary” means: (a) in the case of a Disease Prevention and Health Promotion 
Subproject: an association, non-governmental organization, corporation or other 
agency, or an association or other organization representing a community, all of 
which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in a 
Subproject under Part 1(b)(ii) of the Project; and (b) in the case of a Research 
Subproject: a health institution or personnel of a health institution that meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in a Subproject under Part 
1(a)(vii) of the Project. 
5. 
“Capitation Payment” means a financial transfer from the Borrower to an eligible 
DHIE (as hereinafter defined), in an initial amount of US$0.70 equivalent per 
person in the Eligible Population (as hereinafter defined) as of each relevant month, 
adjusted as necessary according to the methodology outlined in the Operational 
Manual depending on the performance of the participating DHIE relative to the 
Coverage and Sanitary Goals (as hereinafter defined). 
6. 
“Concurrent Auditors” means the auditors referred to in Section I.B.3(c) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, that comprise: (a) the Tribunal de Cuentas de la 
República, the Borrower’s supreme audit institution, responsible for the carrying 
out of ex-ante external reviews of the process design; (b) the División de 
Economía de la Salud, the Borrower’s health economics division of DIGESE, 
responsible for the certification of the DHIE Beneficiary Registry and the 
Previniendo Registry (including the validation of the coverage goals); and (c) the 
Dirección Departamental de DIGESA, DIGESA’s departmental directorate, 
responsible for the validation and control of the participating DHIE’s performance 
with respect to the sanitary goals. 
7. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
8. 
“Coverage and Sanitary Goals” means the targets, agreed by the Borrower and each 
participating DHIE in the Annual Performance Agreement, for the percentage of 
- 18 -
the Eligible Population (as hereinafter defined) that has received the initial 
screening and the percentage of the Eligible Population (as hereinafter defined) 
receiving the planned medical services to mitigate identified NCD risk factors. 
 
9. 
“DHIE” means all the Borrower’s private and public health institutions authorized 
by the Borrower to provide health insurance and health care services to the 
population, operating in each Participating Department. 
 
10. 
“DHIE Beneficiary Registry” means the database of all beneficiaries of each 
participating DHIE, without any other consideration.  
 
11. 
“Department” means a political subdivision of the Borrower, and the term 
“Departments” means all of said political subdivisions. 
 
12. 
“DIGESA” means Dirección General de Salud, the MSP’s Directorate General of 
Health. 
 
13. 
“DIGESE” means Dirección General de Secretaría, the MSP’s Directorate 
General of Secretariat. 
 
14. 
“Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Subproject” means a set of activities 
designed to enhance public and private local stakeholder’s initiatives and 
involvement in local health promotion and preventive actions and programs, 
including, but not limited to, NCD programs.  
 
15. 
“Eligible Population” means all those DHIE beneficiaries 18 years of age and 
over.  
 
16. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the assessment prepared by the Borrower, 
dated June 5, 2007, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect 
of the Project.  
 
17. 
“Fund for a Healthy and Inclusive Uruguay” means a fund to consolidate local 
capacity to generate and implement policies, programs and activities, within the 
conceptual framework of healthy and inclusive spaces and environments, through 
the provision of small grants for selected proposals developed and submitted by 
Beneficiaries through a national public competition.  
 
18. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
19. 
“Health Care Provider Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section I.A.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
- 19 -
20. 
“Model Subproject Agreement” means the model agreement for Subprojects to be 
included in the Operational Manual. 
 
21. 
“MSP” means Ministerio de Salud Pública, the Borrower’s Ministry of Public 
Health. 
 
22. 
“NCD” means non-communicable diseases, specifically those with higher 
prevalence in the Borrower’s territory including, inter alia, cardiovascular 
diseases (hypertension), diabetes and obesity. 
 
23. 
“Nomenclador” means the list of the eligible health services referred to in Section 
I.B.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
24. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph I.B.5(b) of 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Participating Department” means any Department of the Borrower that meets the 
requirements set forth in the Operational Manual to be eligible to participate and 
receive funds from the Previniendo Program under Part 3 of the Project.     
 
26. 
“PPI” means the package of initially 10 cost-effective preventive interventions for 
primary health care promotion and prevention for the Previniendo Program, 
materialized in the Nomenclador. 
 
27. 
“PSCU” means the Project support and coordination unit to be created within 
MSP and referred to in paragraph I.B.4(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
28. 
“Previniendo Program” means the Borrower’s pilot program to reduce the risk 
factors and medical complications associated with NCD. 
 
29. 
“Previniendo Registry” means the database of persons that are part of the Eligible 
Population who are receiving the PPI. 
 
30. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
31. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 12, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
32. 
“Research Subproject” means  a set of activities designed to develop investigative 
capacity on epidemiological surveillance and disease control. 
 
- 20 -
33. 
“Subprojects” means collectively the Research Subprojects and the Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion Subprojects. 
 
34. 
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in paragraph 
I.A.2(a) to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
35. 
“Umbrella Agreement” means each agreement referred to in Section I.A.1(a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 21 -
wb306574 
M:\URUGUAY\1055 - Non-Communicable Diseases Prevention Project\LA.doc 
07/03/2007 
11:38:00 
AM
 
