CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7409-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 9, 2007 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7409-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 9, 2007, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars 
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
-2- 
 
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time, provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. The Payment Dates are July 1 and January 1 in each year. 
 
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. (a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts 
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) 
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for 
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MSN with the assistance of 
the Participating Provinces (as provided in the corresponding Umbrella 
-3- 
 
Agreements), all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through 
MSN shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any 
Participating Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its 
Umbrella Agreement and/or any of its Annual Performance Agreements, and the 
Borrower shall have failed to exercise its remedies under such Agreements, in 
which case the Bank may only suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred 
as payments to or for the benefit of the relevant Participating Province(s). 
 
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs for all Participating 
Provinces and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event for 
the last of the affected Participating Provinces has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expires on May 2, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Production. 
 
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
C1109ADA, Buenos Aires 
Argentina 
 
-4- 
 
Cable:  
 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA 
121942-AR 
 
(5411) 43498815 
Baires 
 
6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Felisa Miceli 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase access by eligible uninsured 
mothers and children to basic health services; and (b) to strengthen the incentive framework 
for efficiency and focus on results between the national level and the Eligible Provinces and 
among Eligible Provinces and service providers by linking financing to both services actually 
rendered to the target population and to the achievement of the MCHIP results as reflected by the 
selected ten tracers of the Trazadoras Matrix.
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part 1: Implementation of the Maternal-Child Health Insurance Program
(a) 
Making of Capitation Payments for MCHIP services. 
(b) 
Strengthening of the capacity of public Authorized  Providers within the 
Participating Provinces, through the provision of medical equipment, ambulances and 
communication equipment. 
(c) 
Strengthening of the management and oversight institutional capacity of 
the MSPs in respect of the Authorized Providers’ activities, through the provision of 
technical assistance and specialized training including, inter alia: development of annual 
performance agreements with MSN and Authorized Providers; development and 
implementation of contracting and payments systems involving such providers; and 
development and implementation of outreach and service delivery strategies and 
mechanisms to rural and indigenous people and other excluded populations. 
(d) 
Strengthening of the public Authorized Providers’ capacity to diagnose, 
manage and deliver the eligible health services included in the Nomenclador Unico,
through the provision of specialized training, including training in, inter alia, the use of 
specialized equipment, technical maternal-child care practices, and adaptation of 
practices to the needs of indigenous peoples. 
(e) 
Upgrading and expanding of the MSN and MSP information systems for 
the monitoring and implementation of the MCHIP, through the provision of technical 
assistance and acquisition and use of specialized information technology equipment. 
(f) 
Strengthening the public Authorized Providers’ management capacity as it 
relates to areas such as billing, and development and implementation of provider data 
systems through the provision of technical assistance and training. 
-6- 
 
Part 2: Strengthening National and Provincial Ministries of Health Regulatory and Public 
Health Oversight Capacity
Strengthening of the capacity of the MSN and the MSPs to accommodate the 
demands generated by the MCHIP by: 
(a) 
Reorganizing MSPs’ and MSN’s mandates, staffing and relationships. 
(b) 
Improving epidemiological information, financial and human resource 
management systems. 
(c) 
Streamlining the regulatory and planning capacity of MSN and its 
dependent public health program units. 
(d) 
Carrying out specialized studies essential for MSN policy formulation as 
may be proposed by the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank. 
Part 3: Communications and Community Outreach
(a) 
Dissemination of detailed information about the MCHIP among major 
stakeholders such as the populations of the  Eligible Provinces, medical profession, and 
insurance agency managers and staff, while providing opportunities for feedback and 
dialogue. 
(b) 
Community outreach to increase participation of the targeted population 
by providing:  
(i) 
practical information on: (A) the beneficiaries’ rights to services; 
(B) the package of basic services included in the MCHIP; (C) the 
methods of enrolment; and (D) the location, times and names of 
the Authorized  Providers; and 
(ii) 
support to: (A) community contact groups responsible for 
disseminating information and receiving and reacting to feedback 
to provide an element of citizen control; and (B) provincial and 
national media communications campaigns, all including tailored 
strategies for  indigenous peoples.  
Part 4: Program Monitoring, Evaluation and Concurrent Auditing
Strengthening the capacity of the MSN and the MSPs to monitor, evaluate and 
audit the MCHIP through the provision of technical assistance and support for the 
-7- 
 
carrying out of auditing services under the Project, purchasing of software and 
equipment, and the provision of specialized training. 
Part 5: Project Management
Strengthening of the NHSPT and PHSPTs, through the provision of technical 
assistance and the financing of operating costs. 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of assisting the MSN in the overall management of the Project, 
the Borrower, through MSN, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within the MSN, a 
national health services purchasing team (the NHSPT) to manage Project implementation 
on behalf of MSN with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed 
with a coordinator, technical experts and other personnel in number and with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
cause the Participating Provinces, through the Umbrella Agreements, to 
create and maintain throughout the execution of the Project, within the respective MSPs, 
provincial  health services purchasing teams (the PHSPTs), with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank and with staff in number 
and with qualifications and experience acceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank. 
2. 
For the purposes of implementing Part 1. (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through MSN: 
 
(a) 
prepare, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a list 
of eligible health services (the Nomenclador Unico), to be provided by Authorized  
Providers acceptable to the Bank; and  
 
(b) 
develop a matrix of ten (10) agreed service production goals (the 
Trazadoras Matrix), for the purposes of monitoring such production goals and 
transferring the Capitation Payments on a periodic basis to the Participating Provinces, all 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  
3. 
The Borrower, through MSN, and the Bank shall jointly review once every year 
the Capitation Payments amount, the eligible health services included in the 
Nomenclador Unico and the Trazadoras Matrix and adjust them as necessary in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
4. 
Without limitation of the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower, through MSN, shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia: (a) the terms of reference, 
functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the NHSPT and  PHSPTs responsible 
for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (b) the criteria, detailed 
-9- 
 
rules and procedures for the Capitation Payments; (c) procedures for procurement of 
goods and services, as well as for financial management and audits of the Project; (d) the 
indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (e) draft models for 
the Umbrella Agreements and Annual Performance Agreements; (f) detailed criteria for 
the conversion of Eligible Population into Enrolled Population (procedures, activities and 
monitoring indicators for the enrollment of said population); (g) flow and disbursement 
arrangements of Project funds; and (h) the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, 
including criteria to ensure adequate and culturally appropriate access by indigenous 
peoples to the MCHIP. 
5. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall establish and thereafter maintain 
operative guidelines (the Provincial Operative Guidelines), satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall contain those chapters of the Operational Manual of direct concern to the 
Participating Provinces and their role in the implementation of the Project. Said operative 
guidelines shall be an annex to the Umbrella Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through MSN, and each of the Participating Provinces.  
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through MSN 
shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or the Provincial 
Operative Guidelines, or any provision thereof.  In case of any conflict between the 
provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual or the Provincial 
Operative Guidelines, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
6. 
For the purposes of implementing  the Project the Borrower, through MSN, shall: 
(a) 
enter into an agreement (the Umbrella Agreement) with each Participating 
Province, setting forth the technical, financial, administrative, safeguard and fiduciary 
aspects of the national and provincial participation in the implementation and use of 
funds of Parts 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the Project, including, inter alia, the obligation of the 
Participating Provinces to make available the Padrón de Obra Social Provincial to   
MSN, all in terms and conditions acceptable to MSN  and the Bank; 
(b) 
every year, starting immediately after the Effective Date for the first year 
of the Project, and on January 1 thereafter, enter into a performance agreement (the 
Annual Performance Agreement) with each Participating Province, setting forth annual 
targets for the Trazadoras Matrix, work programs and resource requirements for the 
implementation of the Project, all on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;  
(c) 
cause each Participating Province (through the respective Umbrella 
Agreement) to: (i) enter into an agreement (or other formal arrangement when the 
provider is public) with an Authorized  Provider (the Authorized   Provider Agreement), 
setting forth, inter alia, the Participating Provinces’ payment mechanisms with respect to 
each of the Authorized  Providers; and (ii) ensure that payments from each of the 
-10- 
 
Participating Provinces to the Authorized  Providers are solely in payment of services 
included in the Nomenclador Unico, and in no case said payments shall include the 
payment of salaries, supplies or any other production factor; 
(d) 
cause each Participating Province (through the respective Annual 
Performance Agreement) to set the prices corresponding to all health services or group of 
health services contained in the Nomenclador Unico, on terms satisfactory to the 
Borrower, through MSN, and inform the Bank accordingly;  
(e) 
cause each Participating Province, when applicable in accordance with the 
provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (through the respective 
Umbrella Agreement) to carry out the applicable Indigenous Peoples Plan in accordance 
with its terms; 
(f) 
cause each Participating Province to take all necessary actions to enable 
the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections I, II, III, and IV of this 
Schedule, including those set forth or referred to in the General Conditions, in respect of 
the carrying out of the Project as it may apply to the assistance provided by the respective 
Participating Province; and 
(g) 
(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Umbrella 
Agreement and each Annual Performance Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; (ii) 
cause each Participating Province to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each Authorized Provider Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (iii) except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or 
fail to enforce any Umbrella Agreement and/or Annual Performance Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
7. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MSN, shall make Capitation Payments available to 
an Eligible Province, only after said Eligible Province has fulfilled the requirements set 
forth in the Loan Agreement in order to become a Participating Province. Such Capitation 
Payments shall be made in the following manner:  
(i) 
during the first six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, 
through MSN, shall disburse 100% of the Capitation Payment 
amount every month immediately after the Participating Province 
has sent to MSN the registry with the population enrolled in the 
MCHIP as of the previous month and the  MSN has certified and 
validated said registry; and  
-11- 
 
(ii) 
thereafter, said Capitation Payment shall be made in two 
installments: (A) 60% every month, immediately after the 
Participating Province has sent to the MSN  the monthly registry 
with the population enrolled as described in (i) above; and (B) the 
remaining 40% shall be disbursed initially every four months, after 
verification of the Participating Province’s performance with 
respect to the Trazadoras Matrix, as provided in the Operational 
Manual, the Provincial Operative Guidelines and the Annual 
Performance Agreements. The initial 4-months period may be 
modified if necessary, in a manner satisfactory to both the  MSN 
and the Bank.  
(b) 
For the purposes of the certification and validation procedure referred to in 
(a)(i) above, the Borrower, through MSN, shall: (i) appoint under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, an 
independent auditing firm with qualifications and terms of contracting satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Concurrent Auditor) responsible for performing bimonthly (or any other 
interval acceptable to the Bank) audits on the Trazadoras Matrix and the registry of 
Enrolled Population; and (ii) use as support documentation the Padrón de Obra Social 
Provincial, the Padrón de Obras Sociales Nacionales, and the reports provided by the 
Concurrent Auditor, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
(c) 
In case a Participating Province fails to achieve at least four out of the ten 
services production goals included in the Trazadoras Matrix for three consecutive four-
month periods, the Borrower, through MSN, may suspend the right of said Participating 
Province to receive funds under Part 1. (a) of the Project. 
8. 
The Borrower shall through MSN: 
(a) 
not later than November 15 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting November 15, 2006, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual 
implementation plan (the Annual Implementation Plan), each said plan to include, inter 
alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower, through MSN, during the 
calendar year following the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the procurement plan 
for each said calendar year; and 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Implementation Plan, approved by 
the Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
9. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, not later than January 31, 2007, create and 
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, specific national budget line 
entries in its annual budget in order to record all expenditures and Capitation Payments 
(considered transfers under such budget) incurred during Project implementation.
-12- 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than two months after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MSN, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than  forty-five days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General.
1. 
Goods and Non-consulting Services.   All goods and non-consulting services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
The following provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods and services 
(including consulting services): 
 
-13- 
 
(a) 
Foreign and local service providers, consultants and suppliers shall not be 
required: (i) to register; or (ii) to establish residence in Argentina or in a Province; or (iii) 
enter into association with other national or international bidders as a condition for 
submitting bids or proposals. 
 
(b) 
Invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid opening, requests for 
expressions of interest, and contract award reports of all goods and services, including 
consultants’ shall be published in the web page of the Oficina Nacional de 
Contrataciones, the Borrower’s National Contracting Board (ONC), in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period shall be counted from the date of publication 
of the invitation to bid or the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid 
opening. 
 
(c) 
Witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for a bid evaluation or 
contract award.  
 
(d) 
Bidders and consultants shall not be allowed to review or make copies of 
others bidders’ bids or consultants’ proposals, as the case may be. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement 
Plans Execution System with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan 
within 30 days after such plan has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the 
Procurement Plan at least biannually or as required to reflect the actual Project 
implementation needs and progress and supply the Bank’s Procurement Plans Execution 
System with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately 
thereafter. 
 
(f) 
A two-envelope system for procurement will not be used for procurement 
of goods and services (other than consultant services). 
 
(g) 
For contracts for goods and  services, other than consulting services, “the 
most convenient” bid shall be the one that has been determined to be substantially 
responsive and has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, provided that further 
the bidder is determined to be qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily. 
 
(h) 
The lowest evaluated bidder shall not be required to reduce its bid as a 
condition of contract award. 
 
(i) 
National Competitive Bidding procedures would be modified in order to 
make them identical to International Competitive Bidding procedures, exception made of 
the following features: (i) advertisement may be limited to the national press or official 
gazette, and the ONC website; (ii) the Borrower’s currency may be used for the purposes 
of bidding and payment; (iii) the bidding period (from the date of publication of the 
invitation to bid or the date that the documents are available, whichever is later, to the 
-14- 
 
date of bid opening) may be reduced to 30 days; and (iv) the INCOTERM clause 
Delivery Duty Paid (DDP) may be used for the procurement of goods. 
(j) 
Consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities. 
 
4. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures, which may at the Borrower’s 
option be subject to Domestic Preference, as per paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consulting Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consulting services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Biddding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
-15- 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ 
Qualifications 
(c) Comparison of qualifications of at 
least three individuals 
(d) Sole Source Contracting 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  
 
(a) 
each contract for goods and Non-Consultant Services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
 
(b) 
each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$350,000 or more; 
 
(c) 
the first contract procured under each procurement and selection method 
irrespective of amount; and 
 
(d) 
each contract for: (i) Goods and Non-Consultant Services, and (ii) 
consultants’ services, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and contracted 
under Direct Contracting and Sole Source methods, respectively. All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for 
Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed 
for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
-16- 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Consultants Services 
(including audits) 
 
35,900,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods 
 
35,600,000 
100% 
(3) Training 
 
5,600,000 
100% 
(4) Capitation Payments 
 
208,500,000 
100% until disbursements 
under this category have 
reached 
an 
amount 
of 
US$128,000,000; 70% until 
such 
disbursements 
have 
reached 
an 
amount 
of 
US$177,000,000; and 40% 
thereafter 
 
(5) Operating Costs 
 
400,000 
85% 
 
(6) Unallocated 
 
14,000,000 
 
(7) Front-end Fee 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.04 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions  
 
(8) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.08 (c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
300,000,000 
 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of recurrent 
expenditures of MSN  in Project implementation such as consumable items, utilities and 
supplies, which would not have been incurred absent the Project; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by MSN  to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of 
trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities, materials and 
equipment under the Project.  
-17- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for expenditures under Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 2 (a) above 
unless the Concurrent Auditor has been appointed. 
2. 
The Closing Date is  December 31, 2012. 
 
-18- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each July 1 and January 1 
 
Beginning January 1, 2012  
 
through July 1, 2021 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of 
such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
-19- 
 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-20- 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Annual Implementation Plan” means each implementation plan referred to in 
Section I.8.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“Annual Performance Agreement” means each agreement referred to in Section 
I.6.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Arg$” means Argentine Peso, the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
4. 
“Authorized Provider” means any public or private health facility which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
5. 
“Authorized Provider Agreement” means each agreement referred to in Section 
I.6.(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
6. 
 “Capitation Payment” means a financial transfer from the Borrower, through 
MSN, to the Participating Provinces, in an initial amount of Arg$15 per person 
enrolled in the MCHIP as of each relevant month, for the payment of services 
rendered to Enrolled Population  and included in the Nomenclador Unico.
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
8. 
 “Concurrent Auditor” means the independent auditing firm mentioned in Section 
I.7.(b)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
10. 
“Eligible Population” means all uninsured pregnant women up to 45 days after 
delivery or miscarriage, and all uninsured children up to 6 years of age, living 
within the territory of a Participating Province. 
11. 
“Eligible Province” means the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires (Ciudad 
Autónoma de Buenos Aires) and any of the Provinces other than Catamarca, 
Chaco, Corrientes, Formosa, Jujuy, Misiones, Salta, Santiago del Estero and 
Tucumán. 
-21- 
 
12. 
 “Enrolled Population” means the Eligible Population that has voluntarily enrolled 
in the MCHIP in a  Participating Province. 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
14. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the framework for preparation 
of Indigenous Peoples Plans by the relevant Participating Provinces set forth in 
the Operational Manual. 
15. 
 “Indigenous Peoples Plan” means any of the plans prepared and carried out 
following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework. 
16. 
“INSSJyP” means Instituto Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados y 
Pensionados, the Borrower’s National Institute for Social Services for Retirees, 
regulated by the Borrower’s Law No. 25.615 and the Borrower’s Decree No. 
1309/02. 
17. 
 “MCHIP” means the Borrower’s Maternal and Child Health Insurance Program 
(Seguro Materno Infantil), established by article 3 of the Borrower’s Decree 
2724/2002 and implemented through MSN Ministerial Resolution 198 of August 
15, 2003. 
18. 
 “MSN” means Ministerio de Salud de la Nación, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Health. 
19. 
 “MSP” means Ministerio de Salud Provincial (or its equivalent in each 
Province), each of the Borrower’s Participating Provinces’ Ministries of Health. 
20. 
 “National Health Insurance Entities” means the entities referred to in Article 1 of 
the Borrower’s Law 23.660 (Agentes del Seguro Nacional de Salud) and the 
Borrower’s INSSJyP. 
21. 
“NHSPT” means the team  referred to in Section I.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
22. 
“Nomenclador Unico” means the list of eligible health services referred to in 
Section I.2.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
23. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.4. of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and approved by the Bank on September 8, 2006 
-22- 
 
24. 
“Padrón de Obra Social Provincial” means each of the Participating Provinces’ 
enrollment databases containing information regarding individuals participating in 
the Province’s social health insurance scheme. 
25. 
“Padrón de Obras Sociales Nacionales” means the national enrollment database 
consolidating information regarding individuals participating in National Social 
Health Insurance Entities programs. 
26. 
“Participating Province” means any Eligible Province that has fulfilled the 
requirements of the Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual to be eligible to 
participate and receive funds from the Project. 
27. 
“PHSPT” means the Provincial team referred to in Section I.1.(b) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
29. 
“Procurement Plan” means the  MSN procurement plan for the Project, dated 
August 30, 2006  and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
30. 
“Program” means the program designed to provide maternal-child health 
insurance set forth or referred to in the letter dated September 5, 2003 from the 
Borrower to the Bank. 
31. 
“Province” means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the 
Borrower’s Constitution, and the term “Provinces” means all of said political 
subdivisions. 
32. 
“Provincial Operative Guidelines” means the operative guidelines referred to in 
Section I.5.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
33. 
“Trazadoras Matrix” means the matrix containing ten (10) service production 
goals referred to in Section I.2.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
34. 
“Umbrella Agreement” means each agreement referred to in Section I.6.(a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
