CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7435 AZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Real Estate Registration Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  July 27, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7435 AZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated  July 27, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion  
- 2 -
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A, C and D of the Project through the 
SSRRE, Parts B, C and D of the Project through the SCMSP and Parts C and D 
of the Project through the SLCC, in accordance with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
- 3 -
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Operational Manual 
and the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The legislation affecting real estate administration has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Charter of the SSRRE (approved by the Presidential Decree No. 
286, dated August 30, 2005) has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(c) 
The Operational Manual has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:  
 
- 4 -
142116 BNKSL 
 
- 5 -
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By /s/ Samir Rauf oglu Sharifov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gregory T. Jedrzejczak 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to ensure the reliable, transparent and efficient real 
estate registration system, which supports the real property markets and suitable systems 
for the management and use of State-owned immovable property. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Real Estate Registration
Development of more effective and efficient customer services for the 
registration of property rights through: (i) the improvement of the physical condition of 
the registration office premises; (ii) the installation of automated systems and on-line 
services, including for notaries; (iii) the provision of a complete real estate cadastre and 
building inventory; and (iv) pilot activities to analyze the scope of informal and 
unplanned development and the preparation of the Formalization Strategy for resolving 
these issues. 
 
Part B: State Property Management and Register
(i) Improvement of: (a) the system for management and registry of state property; 
and (b) service delivery; and (ii) automation of the administrative systems. 
 
Part C: Mapping and Land Cadastre
Provision of basic geodetic, mapping and cadastral data, and maintenance of the 
real estate cadastre in order to support effective and efficient registration of property 
rights and management of state property, including: (i) establishment of the CORS to be 
used for current and future survey work; (ii) production of a complete set of digital 
orthophotomaps through new satellite and aerial imagery; (iii) development of land 
parcel maps; and (iv) improvement of the ongoing sustainability of these services through 
strategic and business planning. 
 
Part D: Training, Policy Development and Project Management
Support of the Project implementation and monitoring and coordination of joint 
activities relating to: (i) training; (ii) development of joint information technology and 
information management strategy; and (iii) policy and legislative development. 
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
by December 1, 2007, establish the Steering Committee; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that the Steering Committee shall be maintained until the 
completion of the Project under terms of references satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the SSRRE, shall: 
 
(a) 
by September 30, 2009, develop registration service standards, a human 
resource development strategy and a business plan for continued operation of the 
registration services; and 
 
(b) 
thereafter implement the measures developed under (a) above. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all measures necessary for the 
carrying out of the EMP in a timely manner. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports  
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
- 8 -
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
- 9 -
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
 National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder 
and/or origin of goods; 
 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works 
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works projects; 
 
(iii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law; 
 
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
 
(vi) 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of 
producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
 
(vii) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ 
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring 
entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available budget; 
 
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the 
Association; 
 
(ix) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
 
(x) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the 
contract scope and conditions during implementation. 
 
(b) 
Shopping 
 
(c) 
Direct Contracting 
 
- 10 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(b) 
Selection through Fixed Budget 
 
(c) 
Selection of Individual Consultants, including Single Source Selection 
 
(d) 
Least Cost Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
- 11 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) 
Goods, Works, 
 
Services and 
 
Operating Costs 
 
30,000,000 
87% 
(2) 
Premia for Interest 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
0 
Amount due under 
Section 2.08 (c) of 
this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
30,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2013. 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 15, 2012 
1.93% 
October 15, 2012 
2.00% 
April 15, 2013 
2.07% 
October 15, 2013 
2.14% 
April 15, 2014 
2.21% 
October 15, 2014 
2.29% 
April 15, 2015 
2.37% 
October 15, 2015 
2.46% 
April 15, 2016 
2.54% 
October 15, 2016 
2.63% 
April 15, 2017 
2.72% 
October 15, 2017 
2.82% 
April 15, 2018 
2.92% 
October 15, 2018 
3.02% 
April 15, 2019 
3.12% 
October 15, 2019 
3.23% 
April 15, 2020 
3.35% 
October 15, 2020 
3.46% 
April 15, 2021 
3.58% 
October 15, 2021 
3.71% 
April 15, 2022 
3.84% 
October 15, 2022 
3.97% 
April 15, 2023 
4.11% 
October 15, 2023 
4.26% 
April 15, 2024 
4.41% 
October 15, 2024 
4.56% 
April 15, 2025 
4.72% 
October 15, 2025 
4.89% 
- 13 -
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 15, 2026 
5.06% 
October 15, 2026 
5.61% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
- 14 -
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 15 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“CORS” means the continuously operating reference stations, to be developed 
under Part C (i) of the Project for the purpose of public use without restriction. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
adopted by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank on November 29, 2006, 
setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse impacts to the environment. 
 
5. 
“Formalization Strategy” means the strategy, acceptable to the Bank, under Part 
A (iv) of the Project, setting out the recommendations for resolving the problems 
of illegal and unplanned development. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
7. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
travel and salaries, but excluding the salaries of the civil servants, 
telecommunication, and any other expenditure related to the Project agreed upon 
by the Bank. 
 
8. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the Bank, setting out the 
form and processes for operation of the Project. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 16, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
11. 
“SCMSP” means the State Committee for the Management of State Property of 
the Borrower. 
 
12. 
“SLCC” means the State Land and Cartography Committee of the Borrower. 
- 16 -
13. 
“SSRRE” means the State Service for the Registration of Real Estate of the 
Borrower. 
 
14. 
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be established pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, responsible for 
monitoring Project progress and approving annual work plans and budgets.
 
