CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7481-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Protection Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 18, 2007 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7481-DO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 18, 2007, between the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nineteen million four hundred 
 
thousand Dollars ($19,400,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
 
2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
-2-
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
 
end, the Borrower, through the Social Cabinet, and with the assistance of CEC 
 
and CCSC, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
-3-
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
CEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CEC 
Inter-Institutional Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the modification, dissolution or disestablishment of the 
Social Cabinet so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of 
the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the modification, dissolution or disestablishment of the 
SIUBEN so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement, but in no case later than the  eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s 
approval of the Loan which expire on February 2, 2009. 
 
-4-
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretario de Estado de Hacienda.
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda  
 
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
 
Santo Domingo, República Dominicana 
 
Tel:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(809) 687-5131  
(809) 688-8838 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
-5-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Vicente Vengoa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
 
Authorized Representative 
-6-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the coverage, targeting and 
effectiveness of the Borrower’s social protection programs, through: (i) the provision of 
legal identity documents to the Borrower’s poor population; (ii) institutional 
strengthening of targeting mechanisms; and (iii) the strengthening of systems for 
monitoring and evaluation of the Borrower’s social programs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Provision of National Identity Documents
A. 
Carrying out of targeted communications campaigns to emphasize the 
importance of obtaining national identification documents and to disseminate the 
steps required to obtain them, including, inter alia: (i) the development and 
broadcasting of radio spots, production and distribution of posters, brochures and 
guidelines; and (ii) the carrying out of liaison activities with local community 
leaders to carry out dissemination campaigns targeted to poor families. 
 
B. 
Provision of assistance to identified poor households to obtain their national 
identity documents through the contracting of para-legal staff for the Borrower’s 
Social Cabinet and the provision of training, equipment, office furniture, the 
printing of guides and personal data forms, and transportation costs in support of 
such staff.  
 
C. 
Strengthening the Borrower’s National Civil Registry through: 
 
(i) 
the issuance during Project implementation, by the Borrower’s National 
Civil Registry, of late birth certificates and national identity documents 
for the beneficiaries identified by SIUBEN; 
 
(ii) 
the rehabilitation of the Borrower’s National Civil Registry’s offices; and  
 
(iii) 
the contracting of para-legal staff for the Borrower’s Supreme Court and 
the Borrower’s Attorney General’s Office.  
 
Part 2: Strengthening of Social Protection Services
A. 
Strengthening the Borrower’s Social Cabinet’s institutional capacity to play an 
effective role in the Borrower’s strategy to reduce poverty, including, inter alia,
strengthening its capacity for managing the reform of the social assistance sector. 
-7-
B. 
Strengthening SIUBEN’s institutional capacity, through the provision of ICT 
equipment, survey administration and processing services, staff training and 
technical assistance.  
 
C. 
Enhancement of transparency and capacity for impact assessment of the 
Borrower’s social protection programs and poverty reduction strategy, including 
social audits and monitoring by civil society. 
 
Part 3:  Project Coordination
Strengthening of the Social Cabinet’s technical coordination unit’s and directorate of 
financial management’s (DAF) capacity to carry out the Project, including the contracting 
of a project coordinator, a legal identity specialist, a social protection specialist, a 
monitoring and evaluation specialist, a procurement specialist, a financial management 
specialist, and other necessary staff, and the provision of equipment and the carrying out 
of training.  
 
-8-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional Arrangements
A. 
Implementation Agreements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through the 
Social Cabinet, shall enter into an agreement with CEC (the CEC Inter-
Institutional Agreement), under terms and conditions approved by the 
Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual, to reflect 
CEC’s obligations under Part 1 of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower, through the Social Cabinet, may enter into an agreement 
with UNDP (the UNDP Implementation Agreement) for the 
implementation of Part 1.C (ii) of the Project, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational 
Manual, to reflect UNDP’s obligations under the Project, including, inter 
alia, the preparation of the terms of reference, hiring of consultants, 
payment of contracts, and provision of technical assistance for its 
respective part of the Project. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the Social Cabinet, shall enter into an agreement 
with CCSC (the CCSC Implementation Agreement), under terms and 
conditions approved by the Bank, to reflect: (a) CCSC’s obligations 
under the Project, including, inter alia, the design of the terms of 
reference for the monitoring and evaluation activities of Part 1 of the 
Project and the provision of technical assistance to the Borrower for the 
selection of the civil society organizations which shall carry out the 
monitoring and evaluation activities of Part 1 of the Project; and (b) the 
Social Cabinet’s obligation to transfer to CCSC the necessary funds for 
the carrying out of CCSC’s obligations under the CCSC Implementation 
Agreement.    
 
4. 
The Borrower, through the Social Cabinet, shall exercise its rights under 
the CEC Inter-Institutional Agreement, the UNDP Implementation 
Agreement (should it be entered into), and the CCSC Implementation 
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through, the Social Cabinet, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the CEC Inter-
Institutional Agreement, the UNDP Implementation Agreement and the 
CCSC Implementation Agreement. 
-9-
B. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower’s Social Cabinet 
 
shall maintain within itself the technical coordination unit responsible for the 
 
implementation of the Project, with staffing, functions and responsibilities 
 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following responsibilities: 
 
(a) 
overall planning, coordination and monitoring of Project activities;  
 
(b) 
the updating of the Procurement Plan and the elaboration of the Annual 
Implementation Plan; and 
 
(c) 
the preparation of consolidated financial reports and the contracting of 
external audits. 
 
C. 
Manuals
1. 
The Borrower, through the Social Cabinet and CEC, shall, and shall cause the 
 
Project to be carried out in accordance with the terms of a manual satisfactory to 
 
the Bank (the Operational Manual). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
 
Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or 
 
any provision thereof. In case of any conflict between the terms of this 
 
Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement 
 
shall prevail.  
 
2. 
The Operational Manual shall include provisions detailing procedures and 
 
guidelines for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia: 
 
(a)  
the procedures for the preparation, review and approval of reports 
pursuant to the Project’s financial management arrangements; 
 
(b)  
procurement and contracting procedures consistent with Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, to be applicable to the contracts for the works, goods, 
consultants' services and services (other than consultants’ services) 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; 
 
(c)  
Project performance indicators and the procedures for the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project, including the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
the procedures for the Borrower’s preparation, review and approval of 
Loan proceeds withdrawal applications to the Bank, in conformity with 
the instructions that the Bank may give to the Borrower in this respect; 
and 
-10-
(e) 
CEC’s obligations under the Project. 
 
3. 
The Operational Manual shall be reviewed annually by the Social Cabinet and 
 
the Bank as part of the Project supervision. 
 
D. 
Other Covenants
The Borrower, through the Social Cabinet and its National Civil Registry, shall 
 
review and adjust annually to the satisfaction of the Bank, the costs of salaries 
 
used to produce and issue the identity documents referred to in Part 1.C (i) of the 
 
Project. Such adjustment shall be unnecessary if the Bank is satisfied that said 
 
review reveals no change in such costs. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  
 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
 
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered 
 
by such report.  
 
2.  
The Borrower shall carry out an in-depth review (the Mid-Term Review) jointly 
with the Bank not later than two years after the Effective Date or such later date 
as the Bank shall agree, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall submit, throughout Project implementation, to the Bank, an 
annual operational review of the cost of salaries to produce the identity 
documents referred to in Section I.D of this Schedule, which review should be 
carried out by a firm contracted with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
The first review should be submitted to the Bank not later than twelve months 
after the implementation of Part 1.C (i) of the Project. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through the Social Cabinet, shall submit annually to the Bank a 
 
plan detailing the activities to be carried out under the Project the following year 
 
(the Annual Implementation Plan), starting on January 1, 2008.  
 
-11-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than 30 
 
days after each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
 
Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one FY of the Borrower.   The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than three months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works and Non-Consultant Services.  All goods, works and non-
 
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
 
this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-consultant 
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
 
2 below, goods and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
-12-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works and Goods. The following table 
 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
 
Bidding, which may be used for works, goods and non-consultant services.  The 
 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
 
be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least-Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e)  Single Source Selection 
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
 
Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
-13-
 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to: (a) finance the Front-end Fee in 
 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the General Conditions; and (b) finance 
 
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures and other 
 
items that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the 
 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of 
 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures and other items in each 
 
Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) Works, goods, consultants’ 
 
services, non-consultant services, 
 
Training and Operational Costs 
 
(excepting UNDP Fee) under 
 
Parts 1.A, 1.B, 1.C(ii) and 1.C(iii) 
 
of the Project 
 
10,859,300 
 
100% 
 
(2) Salary costs incurred by the CEC 
 
in issuing national identity 
 
documents, in aggregate amount 
 
of 20,000 documents per each 
 
Loan disbursement, under Part 
 
1.C(i) of the Project 
 
2,000,000 
 
$100,000 equivalent per 
such aggregate amount, as 
adjustable pursuant to 
Section I.D of this 
Schedule 
(3) Works, goods, consultants’ 
 
services, non-consultant services, 
 
Training and Operational Costs 
 
under Part 2 of the Project 
 
5,190,000 
 
100% 
(4) Works, Goods, Consultants’ 
 
Services, Training and 
 
Operational Costs (excepting 
 
UNDP Fee) under Part 3 of the 
 
Project 
 
1,350,700 
 
100% 
-14-
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(5) Front-end Fee 
 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Premia for Interest
Rate Caps and
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.08 (c) 
TOTAL AMOUNT: 
 
19,400,000
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
 
(a) 
“Non-Consultants’ Services” means the services that do not require intellectual 
capacity, including, inter alia, the printing of materials and communication 
services (e.g. radio spots). 
 
(b) 
“Operational Costs” means the reasonable expenses incurred by the Borrower 
through the Social Cabinet and CCSC for coordinating the implementation of the 
project, including, inter alia, transportation, office supplies, maintenance of 
office equipment and communication costs. 
 
(c) 
“Training” means reasonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower, through the 
Social Cabinet, for the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including reasonable costs of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental 
of training facilities and equipment, refreshments and training materials. 
 
(d) 
“UNDP Fee” means the administrative fee paid by the Borrower to UNDP for the 
implementation of Part 1.C (ii) of the Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
 
made in respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
 
-15-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2012 
Through November 15, 2023 
4.17% 
On May 15, 2024 
 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
-16-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date  commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following  the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding 
the 
provisions 
of 
sub-paragraph 
(a) 
of 
this 
 
paragraph, if at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system 
 
under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption  of such billing 
 
system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
 
each such amount. 
-17-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“CCSC” means the Consultative Council of Civil Society (Consejo Consultivo de 
la Sociedad Civil), a non-governmental organization registered under the 
Borrower’s Law No. 122-05 pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 1251, dated 
September 22, 2004. 
 
3. 
“CCSC Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the Social 
Cabinet and CCSC referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank. 
 
4. 
“CEC” means the Borrower’s Central Electoral Council (Junta Central 
 
Electoral), created pursuant the Borrower’s Law No. 35, dated March 8, 1923, 
 
and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 3413. 
 
5. 
“CEC Inter-Institutional Agreement” means the agreement between the Social 
 
Cabinet and CEC referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
7. 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on January 1, and ending on 
 
December 31. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
9. 
“ICT” means information computer technology. 
 
10. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
 
dated May 25, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
-18-
13. 
“SIUBEN” means Sistema Unico de Beneficiarios, the Borrower’s beneficiary 
 
targeting system, created pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1073-04, and dated
 
August 31, 2004. 
 
14. 
“Social Cabinet” means the Borrower’s set of secretariats, coordinated pursuant 
 
to the Borrower’s Presidential Decrees No. 570-05, dated October 12, 2005, No. 
 
1082, dated September 3, 2004, and No. 1251, dated September 22, 2004. 
 
15. 
“UNDP” means the United Nations Development Program. 
 
16. 
“UNDP Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the Social 
 
Cabinet and UNDP referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
 
Agreement.
 
