CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7388-CR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Mainstreaming Market-Based Instruments for Environmental  
Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 8, 2007
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7388-CR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 8, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
the Commitment Charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.01 of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth 
anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter; subject in either case to any waiver of a portion of 
such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end 
Fee not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the 
PSA Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out Part 1.B of the Project through  its ministry of environment and 
energy;  
 
(b) 
cause FONAFIFO to carry out Part 1.A, Part 1.C, Part 1.D, Part 2 and 
Part 3 of the Project using FONAFIFO-BANCO NACIONAL DE 
COSTA RICA Fideicomiso 544; and 
 
(c) 
all, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
(a) 
Law no. 7575 of the Borrower, as amended to date, shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion 
of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, and /or the ability of FONAFIFO to 
perform any of its obligations with respect to the Project; and 
 
(b) 
Fideicomiso 544 dated August 24, 1999 entered between FONAFIFO 
and Banco Nacional shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially 
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, and /or the ability of FONAFIFO 
or Banco Nacional to perform any of its obligations with respect to the 
Project. 
 
4.02. 
Any of the events specified in Section 7.02 (g) of the General Conditions shall 
occur with respect to the GEF Grant Agreement and shall continue for 60 days 
after written notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank. 
 
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and FONAFIFO and has become effective; and 
 
(b) 
the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement) have been fulfilled.  
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
4
FONAFIFO and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FONAFIFO in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case 
later than the eighteen months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
expire on December 10, 2007. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Calle 3 Avenidas 2 y 4 
Diagonal al Teatro Nacional 
Antiguas instalaciones del Banco Anglo 
San Jose 
Costa Rica7.05  
Facsimile: 
(506) 255-4158 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at San José, Costa Rica, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA 
 
By /s/ Guillermo Zúñiga Chaves 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to enhance the conservation of globally significant 
biodiversity in the territory of the Borrower and ensure such biodiversity’s long-
term sustainability by supporting the development and implementation of 
market-based instruments to promote forest conservation in buffer zones of 
protected areas and biological corridors connecting them. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1: Developing and Implementing Sustainable Financing Mechanisms for the 
Provision of Environmental Services
1.A. 
Develop appropriate conservation modalities and identify priority areas for land 
use practices needed to generate hydrological services in respect of watershed 
conservation, to ensure that funds generated by the water tariff are used to 
effectively generate hydrological services. 
 
1.B. 
(i) Strengthen and increase the capital of FBS thereby enabling it to provide 
sustainable, long-term financing for areas of globally significant biodiversity; and 
(ii) develop additional financing sources to increase financial resources of the 
FBS and prepare biodiversity conservation models to assist with the use of 
related funds. 
 
1.C. 
Develop carbon sequestration projects to finance forest regeneration in degraded 
areas and, in relation thereto, to increase the sale of verified emission reductions 
from forests. 
 
1.D. 
Foster a more systematic approach to seeking funding from retail markets or 
markets based on voluntary contributions to environmental conservation. 
 
Part 2: Scaling-up the PSA Program
2.A. 
Strengthen FONAFIFO’s capacity to implement the expanded PSA Program, 
including with respect to issuance and monitoring of environmental service 
contracts that generate global benefits, focusing on enhancing monitoring 
activities which specifically support biodiversity conservation in priority areas. 
 
2.B. 
Develop and introduce a more targeted and differentiated approach to improve 
the allocation of PSA Program funds as well as its efficiency. 
 
2.C. 
Establish and/or strengthen appropriate systems to monitor the PSA Program’s 
effectiveness in generating the desired environmental services. 
7
2.D. 
To finance Contracts with Participating Landholders. 
 
Part 3: Removing barriers for small landholders’ participation in the PSA Program
3.A. 
Remove key obstacles that can impede the participation by small landholders, 
including the high transaction costs of dealing with many individual small 
landholders and the lack of cadastral plans, with specific focus on enhancing 
participation of the marginalized groups that specifically generate global 
biodiversity benefits. 
 
3.B. 
Develop and implement watershed management plans in three pilot areas of the 
Borrower’s territory with high poverty rates.  
 
3.C. 
Strengthen the monitoring systems related to measuring socioeconomic impacts 
of the PSA Program, with a particular emphasis on the poor and the small and 
medium size landholders, including with respect to utilization of PSA Program 
resources in indigenous areas of the Borrower’s territory. 
.
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing, Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
to facilitate the carrying out of the Project by FONAFIFO, the Borrower pursuant 
to a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and FONAFIFO made under 
terms and conditions approved by the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”) shall: (a) 
make the proceeds of the Loan available to FONAFIFO; and (b) take all legal 
and policy measures needed to fully enable FONAFIFO to discharge its duties 
under this Agreement; and 
 
2. 
the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
B. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
Not later than six months after the Effective Date (i) cause to be executed 
the implementation memoranda of understanding satisfactory to the Bank 
among MINAE, SINAC and FONAFIFO; and (ii) enter into an 
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the Service Providing 
Entities selected under the Project (the Service Agreements), setting forth 
therein, inter alia, the terms of reference, the service fees, and all other 
obligations related to the provision of technical services in respect of the 
implementation of specific parts of the Project, including the acquisition 
of goods in relation thereto, all as further specified in the OM. 
 
(b) 
Exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the said MOUs and 
Service Agreements respectively in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
FONAFIFO and FBA shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the MOUs, any Service Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all the monitoring of water quality and quantity 
deriving from the activities contemplated under Part 1.A of this Project shall be 
9
carried out principally by the water department of MINAE, in collaboration with 
FONAFIFO and, as needed, other entities specified in the OM. 
 
C. 
Implementation Documents 
1. 
(a) The Borrower has caused FONAFIFO to adopt an operational manual dated 
April 28, 2006  satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank and consisting of 
different schedules setting forth respectively rules, methods, guidelines, specific 
development plans, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of 
the Project, including the following: 
 
(i) 
(A) the detailed description of Project implementation activities, 
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto; and (B) the institutional arrangements in 
respect thereof and the agreements to be entered in relation 
thereto;  
 
(ii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, 
financial, and disbursement procedures, including all pertinent 
standard documents and model contracts in relation thereto;  
 
(iii) 
the Indigenous People’s Development Plan;  
 
(iv) 
the Environmental Management Plan, including, inter alia: (A) 
the eligibility criteria and biodiversity prioritization criteria 
specifically prepared in respect of the Project for the selection of 
new land under Part 2.D of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(B) by reference to the Borrower’s operations manual  for the 
PSA Program  dated January 19, 2005,  the eligibility criteria for 
Participating  Landholders, and the terms and conditions for the 
ensuing Contracts between FONAFIFO and said Participating  
Landholders, including the procedures for assessing compliance 
of the Participating  Landholders with all terms and conditions of 
the Contracts; 
(v) 
the selection criteria for NGOs and Service Providing Entities 
admitted to participate in Project implementation and the terms 
and conditions for their participation; 
 
(vi) 
the plan for the training and capacity building activities under the 
Project, including all relevant technical advisory services to 
indigenous peoples development associations with Contracts to 
prepare their investment plans;  
(vii) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the 
Project, including all environmental, macroeconomic, social and 
10
PSA Program indigenous participation aspects in relation 
thereto; and 
 
(viii) 
the Performance Indicators for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the OM. 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the OM shall conflict with any one under this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause FONAFIFO to amend the OM from time to time, only 
in consultation with, and after approval, of the Bank, including the parts drawn 
from the operations manual of the PSA Program of the Beneficiary dated January 
19, 2005 and which are relevant for the implementation of the Project 
specifically. 
D. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
1.  
The Borrower shall, through MINAE, assisted by FONAFIFO, establish, not later 
than March 30, 2007, Fundacíon Banco Ambiental, satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall be responsible for administering the proceeds of the GEF Grant made 
available to FBS under Part 1.B of this Agreement.   
 
2. 
The Borrower shall thereafter, through MINAE, and not later than April 30, 
2007, cause FONAFIFO to enter into an agreement with FBA satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Cooperation Agreement), therein setting forth, inter alia, the 
following: 
 
(a) 
the commitment of FBA to establish not later than June 30, 2007, Fondo  
para la Biodiversidad Sostenible, satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) 
the commitment of FBA to enter into an agreement with FBS satisfactory 
to the Bank, (the FBS Trust Agreement) wherein shall be set forth, inter 
alia: (i) the requirement that FBA shall administer the proceeds of the 
GEF Grant made available to FBS under Part 1.B of the Project; and (ii) 
the right of FBA to collect annually from FBS, as its operating costs 
under the Project, up to 15% of the return on investments made by FBS; 
and 
 
(c) 
the commitment that GEF Grant proceeds for the capitalization of FBS 
under Part 1.B of the Project shall be transferred to FBA,  under the FBS 
Trust Agreement between FBA and FBS, only after completion of a 
financial management assessment of FBA satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
11
3. 
The Borrower  commits to transfer from its treasury account ( caja unica) to the 
account of FBS opened in a financial institution satisfactory to the Bank, the  
proceeds of the GEF Grant needed in respect of the implementation of Part 1.B 
of the Project, to be set forth as such in a separate agreement that the Borrower, 
through MINAE, shall cause to be entered between FONAFIFO and FBS (the 
Participation Agreement) not later than 30 days after its effective establishment 
carried out by FBA pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through MINAE, shall, under the Participation Agreement, and 
shall cause FONAFIFO to ensure under the Cooperation Agreement and the FBS 
trust Agreement that: (a) FBA and FBS are subject, throughout Project 
implementation, to the Consultant Guidelines, the Procurement Guidelines, and 
the Bank’s financial management guidelines, including the carrying out of 
financial audits in relation thereto; and (b) legal representation and administration 
of the FBA and FBS, including, inter alia, Board of Directors and other 
managerial and executive functions in respect of FBA and FBS  are and remain at 
all times during Project implementation satisfactory to the Bank, and that any 
changes to such legal representation and administration can only be made in 
consultation with and after approval of the Bank.  
 
5. 
The Borrower, through MINAE, shall: (a) exercise and shall also cause to be 
exercised, its rights,  the right of the parties  to the respective agreements referred 
to in this Section and FONAFIFO’s  rights; and (b) shall carry out and as well,  
shall cause to be carried out, its obligations, the obligations of the parties to the 
respective agreements referred to in this Section and FONAFIFO’s obligations 
under the Cooperation Agreement, the FBS Trust Agreement and the 
Participation Agreement respectively, in such a manner as to protect its interests, 
those  of the  parties to the respective agreements referred to in this Section, 
FONAFIFO’s and the Bank’s and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Grant, 
and, except as shall be otherwise decided in consultations with and after approval 
of the Bank, the Borrower shall  not and shall cause not to be assigned, amended, 
abrogated, waived or failed to be enforced the Cooperation Agreement, the FBS 
Trust Agreement and the Participation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall, under each budget proposal to its legislature for the 
corresponding FY during Project implementation, make adequate arrangements 
for the carrying out of all evaluation, monitoring, technical and financial audits 
required for the Project and set forth under this Agreement and/or the OM.  
 
7. 
The Borrower shall, as counterpart funding for the strengthening of 
FONAFIFO’s capacity to carry out the expanded PSA Program activities under 
the Project, authorize FONAFIFO, through Fideicomiso 544, to appoint and/or 
maintain, on its own terms, personnel required for the implementation of the 
Project, using therefore annually up to 7% of FONAFIFO’s allocated corporate 
budget resources. 
12
8. 
The Borrower shall cause FONAFIFO to design and, not later than March 31, 
2008, to initiate: 
 
(a)  
the implementation of a plan that assigns different levels of payment for 
environmental services to different regions of the Borrower’s territory 
thus allowing the efficiency of the payment for environmental services 
under the Project, as measured by total payments per covered area, to be 
maintained or even increased;  
 
(b) 
the activities for the implementation of the PSA Program under the 
watershed management plans to be prepared in three pilot areas with 
high poverty rates in its territory, as further set forth in the OM; and 
 
(c) 
the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation plan measuring the 
impact of the Project on biodiversity, carbon sequestration and socio-
economic conditions. 
9. 
The Borrower shall cause FONAFIFO to prepare on a yearly basis, throughout 
the course of Project implementation, updated schedules to the OM reflecting the 
status of the implementation of the differentiated payments for environmental 
services under the Project.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than January 31, 2013. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through FONAFIFO, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through FONAFIFO, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project 
Report not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar semester 
13
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through FONAFIFO, shall have the Financial Statements for the 
Project audited, including those of FBA and FBS, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions (the Disbursement 
Letter) as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed
(1) Contracts for payments 
for  environmental services 
 
30,000,000 
100% 
TOTAL  
 
 
30,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawals shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2012. 
 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
5 % 
Beginning November 15, 2011 through 
May 15, 2021 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
15
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
16
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Banco Nacional” means a commercial bank of the Borrower, established, 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Constitution, by decree dated October 09, 1914  
amended on November 05, 1936. 
 
2. 
“Category” means the category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Contracts” mean any and all contracts for payment for environmental services 
financed under the Project and entered into between FONAFIFO, on behalf of 
the Borrower, and any Participating Landholder. 
 
4. 
“Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement between FONAFIFO and FBA 
referred to in Section I.D.2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Disbursement Letter” means  the disbursement letter of even date herewith 
entered into between the Bank and the Borrower setting forth the additional 
instructions referred to in Section III.A.1. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan for the implementation of the 
Project setting forth, inter alia, criteria and procedures to help ensure good 
environmental outcomes and prevent any adverse environmental impacts from 
Project implementation. 
 
7. 
“FBS” means Fondo para la Biodiversidad Sostenible, the Borrower’s Trust 
Fund for Sustainable Biodiversity Conservation to be established under the PSA 
Program with its technical commission chaired by FONAFIFO. 
 
8. 
“FBS Trust Agreement” means the agreement between FBA and FBS referred to 
in Section I.D.2.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
 “Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean FONAFIFO’s fiscal year beginning January 1 and 
ending December 31 of the next calendar year. 
 
10. 
 “FONAFIFO” means Fondo Nacional de Financiamiento Forestal,
the 
Borrower’s forestry financing fund established by law no. 7575 of the Borrower 
dated February 13, 1996, as amended to date, which in 2003 has taken on 
responsibility for the implementation of the PSA Program. 
 
11. 
“FONAFIFO-BANCO NACIONAL DE COSTA RICA Fideicomiso 544” and 
“Fideicomiso 544” mean the trust  agreement dated August 24, 1999 entered  
17
between FONAFIFO and the Borrower’s Banco Nacional for purposes of 
administering the financial resources of FONAFIFO. 
 
12. 
“Fundación Banco Ambiental” and “FBA” mean a private entity to be 
established for the management of resources for biodiversity conservation, as 
referred to in Section I.D.1. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
13. 
“GEF Grant Agreement” means the agreement for the financing of the Project, of 
even date herewith, entered into between FONAFIFO and the Bank as 
implementing agency of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). 
 
14. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
 
15. 
“INBio” means the Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad, the national biodiversity 
institute created in the Borrower’s territory in 1989 as a private research and 
biodiversity management center. 
 
16. 
“Indigenous People’s Development Plan” means the plan prepared by the 
Borrower for the development of its indigenous people under the Project and 
disclosed to the general public on March 02, 2006. 
 
17. 
“JUNAFORCA” means Junta Nacional Forestal Campesina, the Borrower’s 
national farmers’ forestry board, a non-profit entity established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower. 
 
18. 
“MINAE” means Ministerio de Ambiente y Energía, the Borrower’s ministry of 
environment and energy. 
 
19. 
“MOU” means any and all memoranda of understanding referred to in Section 
I.B.1.(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower, selected to carry out specific activities under the 
Project. 
 
21. 
“OM” means the operational manual for the Project referred to in Section I.C. 
1.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
22. 
“ONF” means Oficina Nacional Forestal, the Borrower’s national forestry office 
established by law No. 7575 of the Borrower dated February 13, 1996. 
 
23. 
“Participation Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient and FBS 
referred to in Section I.D.3. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
18
24. 
“Participating Landholder” means any individual, group of persons or entities in 
the Project’s area of the Borrower’s territory having legal title or possession to a 
piece of land pursuant to all pertinent laws of the Borrower and determined to be 
eligible to participate in the PSA Program in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the OM. 
 
25. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank for evaluating the performance of the Project and set forth in the OM. 
 
26. 
“PSA Program” means Programa de Pago por Servicios Ambientales, the 
Borrower’s program for payment of environmental services. 
 
27. 
“Service Agreements” means the agreements referred to in Section I.B.1.(a)(ii) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
28. 
“Service Providing Entity” means INBio, ONF or JUNAFORCA taken 
separately and, in the plural form, all of them taken collectively. 
 
29. 
“SINAC” means Sistema Nacional de Áreas de Conservación, the national 
system of conservation areas, a decentralized and participatory institutional 
management system of the Borrower that unifies MINAE’s competencies 
regarding forestry, wildlife and protected areas matters, or any successor thereto. 
 
30. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to FONAFIFO.  
 
