CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4826-RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Registration Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 14, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4826-RU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 2007, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
2
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Federal Registration Service” means the Federal Registration Service of 
the Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
 
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“Inter-Agency Working Group” means the working group referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
“Ministry of Economic Development and Trade” or “MEDT” means the 
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of the Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
 
(e) 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
 
(f) 
“Ministry of Justice” or “MOJ” means the Ministry of Justice of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto.  
 
(g) 
“PIU” means an entity with staff, resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and selected by the Borrower for the purpose of entering into the 
Project Implementation Agreement pursuant to Section 6.01 of this Agreement.  
 
(h) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
December 26, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(i) 
“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower, represented by the MOF and the Federal Registration Service, 
and the PIU pursuant to Section 6.01 of this Agreement.  
 
3
(j) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the project operational manual 
acceptable to the Bank and the Federal Registration Service and to be adopted by the 
Inter-Agency Working Group, and referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement. 
 
(k) 
“Project Supervisor” means the Project supervisor referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan; Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty million 
Dollars ($50,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services, required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2014 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be 
payable not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
4
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
5
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Federal Registration 
Service with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and real estate registration practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall provide sufficient allocations in its budget for the purposes of 
renovations of local registration offices participating in the Project and for repair of 
existing archive facilities to enable the implementation of Part A of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual and the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
6
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare, or cause to 
be prepared, financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the Federal Registration Service and with the 
assistance of the PIU, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
7
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the Federal Registration Service and the PIU to: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement the Borrower shall cause the 
Federal Registration Service and the PIU to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
8
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The PIU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Implementation Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
The Project Implementation Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or the PIU to carry out the 
Project. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Project Implementation Agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, has been entered into between the Borrower, represented by the MOF and the 
Federal Registration Service, and the PIU with staff, resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
9
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
109097 Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
112008  
 
(7-095) 925-0889 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By /s/ Sergey Vasilyev   
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
11
 SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods, works, 
47,270,000 
 
48% 
 
services and 
 
 
 
training 
 
 
 
(2)     Operating costs 
2,730,000
100%  
 
TOTAL 
50,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “training” means expenditures for Project related study tours, 
training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, including training 
activities for civil servants, not included under goods or service providers’ contracts, 
including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, travel, and per diem 
costs of trainees and trainers; and 
 
(b) 
the term “operating costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by  
the PIU on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
staff salaries and consultancy costs, social charges, Project audit, training, conferences 
and seminars, dissemination of Project related information, office rent and utilities, office 
equipment and supplies, office and equipment insurance, maintenance and repair, vehicle 
maintenance and repair, travel, communication, translation and interpretation, bank 
charges, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project, all based on 
periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (i) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
12
equivalent of  $1,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 2006; and (ii) any expenditures under the Project, 
unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for all operating costs and training 
and for expenditures under contracts for goods and services not subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review, as stipulated in the Procurement Plan, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
13
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the system of registration of legal 
rights to immovable property by developing standardized, clear and more efficient 
registration procedures, and by introducing an improved information management system 
for the registration offices. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Institutional Development of the Federal Registration Service
1.  
Analysis of the legal and regulatory framework and development of draft 
legislation to improve the operation of the registration system. 
 
2.  
Development of a set of service standards for the registration system and 
monitoring of their implementation. 
 
3. 
Dissemination of the registration service information to the general public and 
professional community. 
 
4.  
Monitoring of the quality of registration services through a series of institutional 
impact assessments. 
 
5.  
Development and implementation of a modern document archival system for the 
Federal Registration Service. 
 
Part B: Information and Communications Systems 
1. 
Analysis of the existing information systems, currently in use in the regional 
offices of the Federal Registration Service. 
 
2. 
Development, testing and roll-out of the unified registration software in 
participating regions. 
 
3. 
Conversion of existing registration data to the format required for the creation of 
unified information system in participating regions. 
 
14
4. 
Provision and installation of the equipment required for the new unified 
information system. 
 
Part C: Improvement of Professional Skills of the Federal Registration Service Staff
1. 
Development of an overall training strategy for the Federal Registration Service 
staff. 
 
2. 
Establishment of a remote training facility. 
 
3. 
Development, printing and distribution of operational manuals for registration 
staff. 
 
4. 
Development and conducting of specialized courses and seminars and provision 
of other forms of training, including local and foreign study tours and conferences. 
 
Part D: Project Management 
Strengthening the Federal Registration Service’s and the PIU’s capacity for the 
Project management, monitoring and evaluation, including audit, procurement, 
disbursement and financial management activities, through provision of technical 
assistance, training and office equipment and financing of operating costs. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2013. 
15
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2011 
  
 
 
through November 15, 2022 
  
2,085,000 
 
On May 15, 2023 
  
2,045,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
16
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions 
of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 
equivalent per contract, computer equipment and software and services (other than 
consultants’ services) estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the additional 
provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.  
 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
17
3. 
Services to Organize Training. When appropriate, a firm will be selected to 
provide services in respect of organization of training upon comparison of at least three 
responsive price quotations presented by suitably qualified local service providers under 
agreed procedures.  Individual contract values will normally not exceed the equivalent of 
$100,000.  Contracts estimated to cost more than $100,000 will be advertised nationally 
or internationally and bids for such contacts will be invited. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for such contracts, 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, shall be subject to 
Prior Review by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
18
ANNEX  
to  
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
 
Contracts for goods or works for which Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement 
allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations. In order to 
assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be 
modified as set forth in the following paragraphs. 
 
Eligibility
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall 
be placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those 
imposed by primary boycotts. 
 
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on 
requirements to joint-venture with national firms. 
 
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration 
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified 
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating. 
 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of place of registration, 
ownership, small size, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source of labor, 
material or equipment. 
 
5. 
Government-owned entitles shall be eligible to participate in bidding for 
contracts if they can establish that they are  legally and financial autonomous, operate 
under commercial law and are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
 
Standard Bidding Documents
6. 
Until a modified versions of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been 
approved for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
 
19
Advertising bidding opportunities; time for bid preparation
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least 30 days for bid preparation and submission 
of bids (excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelves goods or standard 
specification commodities or small value works). 
 
8. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurements involving large or complex 
contracts shall be advertised.  
 
9. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post 
qualification) shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so 
specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders 
which are deemed not qualified to bid shall not be further considered and shall be 
rejected. 
 
Bid opening
10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be 
considered and shall be returned unopened.  
 
Rebidding
11. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received 
provided that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed 
capable of performing the contract.  
 
Bid evaluation
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so 
specified shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of 
bids for goods and works contracts.  
 
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be 
present during evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to 
any bidder until the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
 
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as 
20
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw 
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
 
15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be 
applied. Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder. 
 
16. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior 
to contract award.  
 
21
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Management and Implementation of the Project
1. 
For the purposes of overall Project steering and coordination the Borrower shall  
maintain, until the completion of the Project, an Inter-Agency Working Group comprised 
of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Development and 
Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Federal Registration Service and other ministries and 
agencies of the Borrower as may be agreed upon with the Bank, and to be chaired by a 
representative of the Ministry of Justice.. 
 
2. 
 The Federal Registration Service shall be responsible for overall management 
and implementation of the Project through the Project Supervisor appointed by the Head 
of the Federal Registration Service. The Project Supervisor shall be responsible for the 
day-to-day implementation of the Project and shall be assigned, inter alia, with the 
following responsibilities: (i) coordination of the Project implementation activities 
between the Federal Registration Service and other ministries and agencies of the 
Borrower participating in the Project implementation; (ii) coordination of the Project 
implementation activities within the Federal Registration Service and its regional offices; 
(iii) financial management of the Project; and (iv) approval of procurement contracts.  
 
3. 
 The Federal Registration Service shall maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, three separate thematic groups responsible for technical oversight of Part A, Part 
B and Part C of the Project, respectively. The membership and chairmanship of the 
thematic groups shall be determined by the Federal Registration Service and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. Functions and responsibilities of thematic groups shall be 
specified in the Project Operational Manual.  
 
4. 
The Borrower, represented by the MOF and the Federal Registration Service, 
shall enter into Project Implementation Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with the PIU, 
and shall assign to the PIU, inter alia, the following day to day Project management 
responsibilities: procurement, financial management, disbursement and reporting aspects 
of the Project implementation, including operation of the Special Account, claims for 
Special Account replenishment, claims for disbursements of the Loan proceeds directly 
from the Bank, compiling statistical data coming from the participating regions in 
accordance with the Project monitoring plan, and preparing reports on the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, the PIU at all 
times functions in a manner, and with staff, consultants, facilities and other resources 
22
necessary for the management and implementation of the Project, all satisfactory to the 
Bank.    
 
B. 
Semi-annual Reports 
Starting not later than forty-five (45) days after the first six (6) months from the 
Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause the Federal Registration Service to provide to 
the Bank a written report of (a) the results of monitoring and evaluation of the Project, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (b) the status of 
the agreed performance monitoring indicators for the preceding six (6) months, and, 
thereafter, to furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent 
semiannual period another report on the same matters which shall cover such semiannual 
period.  
 
C. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 1, 2010, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 1, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and 
 
(d) 
ensure that institutional input assessment studies under Part A of the 
Project are carried out in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank. 
23
 SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services, training and operating costs required for  the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
24
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
25
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General 
Conditions.
 
