CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4854 BUL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Trade and Transport Facilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 23, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4854 BUL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 23, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million nine hundred thousand 
Euro (EUR 40,900,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 -
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MOF in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through the MOF, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: the PIT Order has 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the implementation of the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
102 Rakovski Street 
 
Sofia, 1040 
 
Republic of Bulgaria 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
22727  
 
(359) 2-9806863 
 
Sofia 
 
- 3 -
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at  Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
 
By: /s/ Plamen Oresharski 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Anand Seth 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to facilitate trade by improving the capacity, 
efficiency and quality of services at selected European Union border crossings with 
particular focus on the Trans-European Transport Network. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I: Improvement of Physical Capacity and Working Conditions at Selected
European Union External Border Crossings with Particular Focus on the Trans-
European Transport Network
1.  
Upgrading the infrastructure and equipment at Kapitan Andreevo and Kalotina 
border crossing points through the construction of new facilities, the rehabilitation of 
existing facilities, the provision of technical advisory services for the design and 
supervision of such construction and rehabilitation, and the provision of equipment to 
NCA and BPD to expedite inspections; and establishing a new customs terminal at 
Svilengrad through the construction of a new facility, the provision of technical advisory 
services for the design and supervision of such construction, and the provision of 
equipment. 
 
2. 
Improving the NCA infrastructure and equipment at selected European Union 
external border crossing points and internal NCA terminals through the construction of 
new NCA facilities, the rehabilitation of existing NCA facilities, the provision of 
technical advisory services for the design and supervision of such construction and 
rehabilitation, and the provision of equipment to NCA. 
 
Part II: Construction of the Access Road to Kapitan Andreevo Border Crossing Point
1. 
Preparation of the EIA for Part II of the Project and the EMP for Part II of the 
Project through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Construction of an access road of about 3.4 km linking the planned Maritsa 
Motorway with the Kapitan Andreevo border crossing point, and supervision of such 
construction through the carrying out of civil works and the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
 
- 5 -
Part III:Enhancing Sharing of Relevant Border Crossing Data and Streamlining 
Operational Procedures of Border Crossing Agencies
1. 
Enhancing exchange of information between border agencies at border crossing 
points by harmonizing and integrating information flows among relevant agencies, 
through the provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition of necessary 
hardware, software and other equipment, the provision of training to users, and the 
financing of the networking costs and required supplemental works. 
 
2. 
Extending the TETRA digital trunk communication system to additional border 
crossing points through the acquisition, configuration and installation of TETRA base 
stations, fixed and portable telecommunication equipment, document checking and 
control equipment, and vehicles. 
 
Part IV:Capacity Building and Support to Project Implementation
1. 
Enhancing the capacity of the trade community by: (i) measuring regularly 
performance at border crossing points and clearance facilities as experienced by users; 
and (ii) providing training to stakeholders on, in particular, logistics, supply chain 
management concepts, and trade and transport facilitation. 
 
2. 
Supporting the PIT in connection with Project implementation, monitoring, 
evaluation and impact assessment through the acquisition of software for the financial 
management of the Project, and the provision of: (i) funds for Incremental Operating 
Costs; (ii) training to its staff on Project management, procurement and financial 
management; and (iii) advisory services for the audits and for the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project. 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.  
The Borrower shall maintain the ISCBC during Project implementation, which 
shall provide oversight and policy guidance as well as overall coordination for the 
implementation of Parts I and III of the Project, and make decisions on significant 
implementation or policy issues in respect of Parts I and III of the Project. The Borrower 
shall ensure that the National Project Coordinator is a member of the ISCBC until the 
completion of the Project. 
 
B. 
The PIT, acting under the Project Manager, shall, in coordination with the NCA 
Project Coordinator, the BPD Project Coordinator and the NRIF Project Coordinator, 
perform all technical responsibilities for Project implementation, including: (a) 
preparation of an annual plan for Project implementation, (b) preparation of bidding and 
contract documents under the Project; (c) the maintenance of the Project financial records 
and accounts and arranging for the audit thereof; (d) preparation of the Project Reports 
referred to in Section II.A of this Schedule; and (e) monitoring and evaluation of progress 
of Project implementation.  The PIT shall be maintained until the completion of the 
Project with staff, functions, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
C. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall ensure: (a) that each annual plan for 
Project implementation referred to in paragraph B (a)  above shall be prepared after a 
review between the Borrower and the Bank of progress in meeting the targets indicated in 
the Project Operational Manual; and (b) that the inclusion of investments and other 
Project activities in said plan, as well as the procurement arrangements thereof, shall be 
made in agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, taking into account the 
requirements set forth in the EMPs for Part I of the Project, the EMP for Part II of the 
Project, the LAPF for Part II of the Project and the LAP for Part II of the Project .  
 
D. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project: (i) the 
National Project Coordinator and the Project Manager are maintained with functions and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the NCA Project Coordinator, the 
BPD Project Coordinator and the NRIF Project Coordinator, are maintained with 
functions and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and coordinate with the PIT in 
respect of the activities of NCA, BPD and NRIF, respectively, under the Project. 
 
E. 
Not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through 
the MOF, shall appoint: (i) the independent auditors referred to in Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions; and (ii) an additional accountant and an additional procurement 
specialist for the PIT, all in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
- 7 -
F. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall: (i)  take all necessary measures to 
implement the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual, the EMPs for 
Part I of the Project, the EMP for Part II of the Project, the LAPF for Part II of the Project 
and the LAP for Part II of the Project, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or 
waive any provisions of the Project Operational Manual, the EMPs for Part I of the 
Project, the EMP for Part II of the Project, the LAPF for Part II of the Project and the 
LAP for Part II of the Project without prior approval of the Bank; and (ii) ensure that 
adequate information on the implementation of  the EMPs for Part I of the Project, the 
EMP for Part II of the Project, the LAPF for Part II of the Project and the LAP for Part II 
of the Project is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this 
Schedule.  
 
G. 
Midterm Review 
 
1. 
Not later than thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through 
the MOF, shall carry out jointly with the Bank, a midterm review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). 
 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
 
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall prepare, and at least four (4) weeks prior 
to the Midterm Review, furnish to the Bank, a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall, not later than two (2) weeks after the 
Midterm Review, prepare and submit to the Bank an action program, acceptable to the 
Bank, for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the 
Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action program. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
- 8 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through the MOF, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, 
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall have the Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
- 9 -
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
 National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions:  
 
•
a point system evaluation shall not be used;  
•
domestic preference shall not be applied;  
•
international bidders shall not be excluded from bidding;  
•
the draft NCB bidding documents shall be prepared and submitted to the 
Bank for review and no-objection before the first NCB tender is issued;  
•
no bids shall be rejected at the bid opening.  All bids submitted on or 
before the deadline for submission of bids shall be opened and read out 
at public bid opening; 
•
local bidders shall demonstrate availability of obtaining securities and 
reasonable access to credit;  
•
bid evaluation criteria shall be pre-disclosed to bidders in the bidding 
documents; and 
•
technical specifications shall be clearly written to promote the broadest 
possible competition.  
 
(b) 
Shopping  
 
(c)   
Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 10 -
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(b)  
Least cost Selection 
 
(c)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(d) 
Single-source Selection 
 
(e)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(f)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
- 11 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Works for the Project,  
excluding Part II of the 
Project, and goods for 
the Project 
 
30,000,000 
 
75% 
(2) Works under Part II of 
the Project 
 
6,900,000 
 
75% 
(3) Consultants’ services, 
Training and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs for the Project 
 
4,000,000 
 
75% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
40,900,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed EUR 2,500,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2006, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1) and (3); or   
 
(b) 
under Category 2, unless, prior to the commencement of any of the civil 
works under Part II of the Project: (i) the EIA for Part II of the Project has been carried 
out and disclosed by the Borrower, and found satisfactory by the Bank; (ii) the EMP for 
Part II of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, has been approved and disclosed by the 
- 12 -
Borrower; and (iii) the LAP for Part II of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
approved and disclosed by the Borrower. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Euro∗)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2012
1,705,000 
through November 15, 2023
On May 15, 2024 
 
1,685,000 
 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
- 14 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“BPD” means the Border Police Directorate of the Borrower established pursuant 
to the Ministry of Interior Act adopted on February 2, 2006 (State Gazette No. 17 
of February 24, 2006), as amended. 
2. 
“BPD Project Coordinator” means the Project coordinator appointed by BPD to 
be responsible for the coordination of the activities of BPD under the Project. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
5. 
“EIA for Part II of the Project” means the Environmental Impact Assessment, 
including public consultation, satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out in 
respect of the activities under Part II of the Project. 
6. 
“EMP for Part II of the Project” means the Environmental Management Plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared by an independent environmental 
assessment expert and adopted by the Borrower, describing the mitigation, 
monitoring and institutional measures to be implemented in order to eliminate, 
offset or reduce any adverse environmental and social aspects in respect of the 
activities under Part II of the Project. 
7. 
“EMPs for Part I of the Project” means the Environmental Management Plans, 
satisfactory to the Bank and adopted by the Borrower, describing the mitigation, 
monitoring and institutional measures to be implemented in order to eliminate, 
offset or reduce any adverse environmental and social aspects in respect of the 
activities under Part I of the Project. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
9. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs incurred 
by the PIT on account of Project implementation, comprising staff salaries, office 
supplies and Project related travel and per diem allowances. 
10. 
“ISCBC” means the Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee for Border Control of 
the Borrower established pursuant to the regulations for the structure and 
activities of the Inter-Ministerial Council responsible for border control issues, 
adopted pursuant to the Decree No. 70 of the Council of Ministers dated March 
27, 1998 (State Gazette No. 39 of April 7, 1998), as amended. 
11. 
“LAP for Part II of the Project” means the Land Acquisition Plan satisfactory to 
the Bank and approved by the Borrower, setting forth: (i) the census of 
individuals and business entities affected by involuntary land acquisition, 
including an inventory and valuation of lost assets; (ii) the details of the 
compensation to be provided to such individuals and business entities; (iii) the 
minutes of the public consultations with the affected individuals and business 
- 15 -
entities; (iv) the details regarding the institutional arrangements for 
implementation and procedures for grievance process; (v) a time-bound 
implementation plan and budget; and (vi) the details regarding the institutional 
arrangements for monitoring the implementation of the Land Acquisition Plan. 
12. 
“LAPF for Part II of the Project” means the Land Acquisition Policy Framework, 
satisfactory to the Bank and approved by the Borrower, setting forth the laws and 
administrative procedures as well as a process of disclosure providing for 
processes, including information and consultation processes,  and appropriate 
compensation at full market value of land-based assets, or loss of income to be 
incurred by individuals or business entities on account of land to be acquired for 
public purposes for implementation of Part II of the Project. 
13. 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower. 
14. 
“National Project Coordinator” means the Project coordinator appointed by the 
Borrower to be responsible for the coordination of the activities of all relevant 
agencies of the Borrower, under the Project. 
15. 
“NCA” means the National Customs Agency of the Borrower, a centralized 
administrative structure of the MOF established pursuant to the Customs Act 
adopted on January 23, 1998 (State Gazette No. 15 of February 6, 1998), as 
amended. 
16. 
“NCA Project Coordinator” means the Project coordinator designated by NCA to 
be responsible for the coordination of the activities of NCA under the Project. 
17. 
“NRIF” means the National Roads Infrastructure Fund of the Borrower 
established pursuant to the Roads Act adopted on July 26, 2006 (State Gazette 
No. 64 of August 8, 2006), as amended . 
18. 
“NRIF Project Coordinator” means the Project coordinator appointed by NRIF to 
be responsible for the coordination of the activities of NRIF under the Project. 
19. 
“PIT” means the Project Implementation Team, established within the MOF. 
20. 
“PIT Order” means the Order No. 1563 issued by the MOF on December 1, 2006 
to establish the PIT. 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 21, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
23. 
“Project Manager” means the head of the PIT. 
24. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual, adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to the provisions of the PIT Order, describing procedures for 
implementation of the Project, and including, inter alia: (i) procedures governing 
administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, and monitoring 
and evaluation arrangements; (ii) targets to be achieved under the Project; and 
(iii) a sample format of Project Reports. 
- 16 -
25. 
“Terrestrial Trunked Radio” or “TETRA” means the digital trunked mobile radio 
standard developed by the European Telecommunications Standardization 
Institute. 
26. 
“Training” means training activities (other than consultants’ services) to be 
carried out under the Project, including the cost of workshops and travel cost and 
per diem of the trainees. 
27. 
“Trans-European Transport Network” means the network to be developed by the 
member States of the European Union under the Community guidelines adopted 
in July 1996 by the European Parliament and Council pursuant to Decision No. 
1692/96/EC as amended. 
 
