CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7479-PAN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Protection Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 12, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7479-PAN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 12, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement the amount of twenty four million Dollars 
($24,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
per cent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out: 
 
(a) 
Parts 1, 2, and 4 of the Project through MIDES; 
 
(b) 
Part 3 of the Project through MINSA; and 
 
(c) 
the coordination of Project implementation through MIDES, 
 
all, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on January 26, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE V— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
Facsímile: (507) 507-7200 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
By /s/ Federico Humbert 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to:  (i) improving the management 
and operation of the RO; (ii) increasing beneficiaries’ participation in the RO and 
promoting therewith demand for education and maternal and infant health services; (iii) 
strengthening the supply of growth promotion interventions in the areas targeted by the 
RO; and (iv) enhancing the Borrower’s capacity to design, implement and monitor 
coherent and efficient social sector policies and interventions.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1:  Management, Monitoring and Evaluation of the RO 
1.1. 
Assisting the Borrower in designing and establishing a set of instruments to 
improve monitoring and information about: (a) RO progress; and (b) 
beneficiaries’ targeting under the RO and compliance with their responsibilities 
under the RO. 
 
1.2. 
Carrying out: (a) various impact evaluations of the RO on rural, urban and 
indigenous households; and (b) a continuous process evaluation of the 
conditional cash transfers scheme in the RO. 
 
1.3. 
Strengthening management capacity of selected MIDES staff at provincial level 
and supporting operational capacity of the RO.  
 
1.4. 
Strengthening the overall governance of the RO, including through, inter alia,
assisting in delineating institutional roles and responsibilities and defining 
criteria for transparency in decision-making and ensuing accountability.   
 
Part 2:  Developing Strategies to Increase Demand for Health and Education in RO
2.1. 
(a) 
assisting beneficiary households to: (i) participate in and comply with all 
 
requirements of the RO, thereby maximizing benefits from the 
 
conditional cash transfers of the RO; (ii) establish or strengthen local 
 
organizations to participate in the RO social audit and control; (iii) be 
 
informed about culturally adequate supply of social services in the areas 
 
of intervention and receive facilitated access thereto; (iv) obtain other 
 
available complementary social services and programs which promote 
 
increased skills and income generation; and  
 
(b) 
providing support for MIDES local and provincial operations, with 
 
specific focus on ensuring diversity of the beneficiaries thereunder.   
 
6
2.2. 
Carrying out the design and subsequent implementation of an IEC campaign 
about the RO, focusing on adequacy of languages and messages along cultural 
and social patterns. 
 
Part 3: Strengthening Growth Promotion Interventions and Access to Health 
Services for the RO Beneficiaries
3.1. 
The elaboration and subsequent roll out of the Enhanced PAISS. 
 
3.2. 
The expansion by NGOs of the Enhanced PAISS to all indigenous areas of the 
Borrower’s territory. 
 
3.3. 
(a) 
the establishment and operationalization of a monitoring and evaluation 
 
system to assess progress of the Enhanced PAISS in the framework of 
 
the RO; and 
 
(b) 
the carrying out of an impact evaluation of community based 
 
intervention to prevent chronic malnutrition.   
 
Part 4: Improving Social Sector Performance
4.1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower for improved policy and decision 
making, coordination, and monitoring in the social sectors. 
 
4.2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to generate knowledge able to 
provide an information basis for coherent and coordinated decision-making and 
for greater effectiveness of social spending. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain within MIDES during the implementation of the 
Project, relevant structures and units described in the OM, consisting of staff 
having experience and qualifications satisfactory at all times to the Bank, 
including staff appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule and  made specifically responsible for:  
(a) 
the technical implementation of Parts 1, 2 and 4 of the Project;  
(b) 
the financial and procurement matters in respect of Parts 1, 2 and 4 of the 
Project; and 
(c)  
the coordination of all Project activities, their monitoring and their 
consolidated reporting. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain within MINSA during the implementation of the 
Project, relevant structures and units described in the OM, consisting of staff 
having experience and qualifications satisfactory at all times to the Bank, 
including staff appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule and specifically made responsible for:  
 
(a) 
the technical implementation of Part 3 of the Project; and  
(b) 
the financial and procurement matters in respect of Part 3 of the Project. 
3. 
To address issues and constraints in respect of Project implementation, the 
Borrower 
shall 
establish 
and 
thereafter 
maintain 
throughout 
Project 
implementation, an inter-institutional committee consisting of representatives of 
selected line ministries of the Borrower, including, inter alia, MEF, MINSA and 
MEDUCA, as set forth in detail in the OM. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure through MIDES and MINSA respectively that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines. 
8
C. 
Implementation Documents 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower has, through MIDES and MINSA, adopted a Project 
 
operational manual dated April 19, 2007, satisfactory to the Bank,  
 
therein setting forth rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and 
 
procedures for the carrying out of the relevant parts of the Project, 
 
including the following: 
 
(i) 
(A) the detailed description of Project implementation activities, 
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto; and (B) the detailed institutional 
arrangements in respect thereof;  
 
(ii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, 
financial, procurement and disbursement procedures, including 
all pertinent standard documents and model contracts in relation 
thereto;  
 
(iii) 
the EMP and the IPP for the Project;  
(iv) 
the plan for the training and capacity building activities under the 
Project;  
 
(v) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project, 
including all environmental, macroeconomic and social aspects 
in relation thereto; and 
 
(vi) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MIDES and MINSA respectively, carry out 
the Project in accordance with the OM. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the OM shall conflict with any one under this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The OM may only be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written 
consent. 
 
D. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
Not later than 9 (nine) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through 
MINSA, shall select and appoint in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
of this Schedule an independent agency to carry out an impact evaluation of the 
integration of the Enhanced PAISS into the framework of the RO referred to in 
Part 3.3(a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
9
2. 
Not later than 12 (twelve) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through 
MIDES, shall select and appoint in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
of this Schedule an independent agency to carry out an impact evaluation of the 
conditional cash transfers under the RO referred to in Part 1.2 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Not later than 60 (sixty) days after the Effective Date, MINSA shall carry out the 
action plan dated April 11, 2007, agreed with the Bank for the strengthening of 
MINSA financial management capacity for the Project. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure, through MIDES, that consolidated MIDES and 
MINSA annual Project work plans and budgets are submitted to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. 
 
5. 
Not later than 12 (twelve) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower may,  
through MINSA, and  as needed: (a) select, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference 
previously agreed with the Bank, an agent acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter; 
(b) enter into an agreement for the administration of Loan proceeds allocated to 
MINSA (the Fiduciary Agency Agreement) with the agent finally retained, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall, under each budget proposal to its legislature for the 
corresponding year during Project implementation, make adequate arrangements 
to gradually assume operating costs related to personnel charges to be financed 
on a declining basis out of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in category 1 of 
the table in Section IV.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
E. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall, through MIDES and MINSA ensure that Parts 1, 2, and 4 of 
the Project in respect of MIDES; and Part 3 of the Project in respect of MINSA, 
are all carried out in accordance with the EMP and the IPP prepared for the 
Project. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Parts 1, 2, and 4 of the 
Project carried out by MIDES and Part 3 of the Project carried out by MINSA 
and prepare, through MIDES and MINSA respectively, Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each such Project Report shall 
10
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than two months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than December 30, 2012. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MIDES and MINSA respectively, maintain or cause 
to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through MIDES and MINSA respectively, shall prepare and MIDES shall furnish 
to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than May 31 and November 30 
in each year during Project implementation, consolidated interim unaudited 
financial reports for Parts 1, 2, and 4 of the Project in respect of MIDES and Part 
3 of the Project in respect of MINSA, each covering the semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements for Parts 1, 2, and 4 of the 
Project implemented by MIDES and Part 3 of the Project implemented by 
MINSA, audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements for Parts 1, 2, and 4 
of the Project implemented by MIDES and Part 3 of the Project implemented by 
MINSA shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period referred to heretofore shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than 4 (four) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-
consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
11
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and subject 
to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
Prior registration, obtaining a license or an authorization shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures; 
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
 
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  
 
(d) 
(d) the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-
bid meeting as a condition to bid.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non 
consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB)  subject to the following  
 
provisions: 
 
(i)  standard bidding documents for NCB, acceptable to the Bank, should 
 
be used; 
 
(ii)  foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 
 
(iii)  no bids or proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall 
 
be made at the time of bid opening; 
 
12
(iv)  the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
 
(v)  the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-
 
bid meeting as a condition to bid; and 
 
(vi) potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids 
 
which should not be less than 30 days, except for commodities and 
 
contracts for small goods and Non-consultant services. 
(b) Shopping, subject to the following provisions: 
 
(i)  foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local  
 
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting quotations; and 
 
(ii)  a minimum of three quotations shall be obtained as a condition to 
 
award the contract. 
 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior written consent 
 
(d) Community Participation for Part 3 of the Project, as further set forth in 
 
the OM. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
13
3. 
Special provisions. All methods of procurement of consultants’ services shall be 
carried out subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
foreign firms shall not be required to be registered with local authorities 
 
as a prerequisite for submitting proposals; 
 
(b) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to furnish any certificate issued 
by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status for the 
purposes of submitting a proposal; and 
 
(c) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to submit their proposals in 
person 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall 
 
be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to 
 
Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) (a) Goods, works, Non-
consultant services, Training and 
consultants’ services for Part 1 of 
the Project 
 
2,700,000 
 
100% for goods; 100% for 
works; 100% for Non-
consultant services; 100% for 
Training;  
14
 
Category
Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(b) Operating costs for Part 1 of 
the Project 
 
1,300,000 
 
100% during the first year of 
Project implementation and 
declining 20% each year 
thereafter. 
(2) Goods, works, Non-consultant 
services, Training and 
consultants’ services for Part 2 of 
the Project. 
 
5,500,000 
100% 
(3) Goods, works, Non-consultant 
services, Training and 
consultants’ services for Part 3 of 
the Project. 
 
9,900,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, works, Non-consultant 
services, Training and 
consultants’ services for Part 4 of 
the Project. 
 
4,600,000 
100% for goods, works, Non-
consultant services and 
Training.  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
24,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
for payments made under Category 1, 2 and 4 of the table in Section 
IV.A.2 of this Schedule until and unless a financial management system 
satisfactory to the Bank is established, made operational and maintained 
in MIDES throughout Project implementation in respect of Parts 1, 2 and 
4 of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
 
15
 SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each  June 15 and December 15: 
 
 
From December 15, 2011 
Through June 15, 2021 
 
4.38% 
From December 15, 2021 
Through December 15, 2026 
 
1.04% 
On June 15, 2027 
0.96% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
16
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
17
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan prepared by the Borrower to 
identify and mitigate potential adverse environmental effects of Project 
implementation dated March 29, 2007 and disclosed to the public on the same 
date therewith. 
 
5. 
“Enhanced PAISS” means the package of health services provided through 
PAISS and strengthened with community-based interventions to prevent chronic 
malnutrition (PAISS+N). 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
 
7. 
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication. 
 
8. 
“IPP” means the Indigenous People’s Plan prepared by the Borrower to ensure 
that the Project objectives and activities benefit the indigenous people of the 
Borrower’s territory, dated March 29, 20007 and disclosed to the public on the 
same date therewith.  
 
9. 
“MEDUCA” means Ministerio de Educación, the Ministry of Education of the 
Borrower.
10. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, theMinistry of Economy and 
Finance of the Borrower. 
 
11. 
“MIDES” means Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, the Ministry of Social 
Development of the Borrower and any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“MINSA” means Ministerio de Salud, the Ministry of Health of the Borrower. 
18
13. 
“NGO” means a Non-Governmental Organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower. 
 
14. 
“Non-consultant services” means, in respect of Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 in the 
table of Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, services to be 
contracted for the carrying out of activities related to the promotion by NGOs of 
the Enhanced PAISS. 
 
15. 
“OM” and “Operational Manual” mean a manual for Project implementation as 
referred to in Section I.C.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Operating costs” means in respect of Category 1 in the table in Section IV.A.2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs and salaries 
of locally contracted employees. 
 
17. 
“PAISS” means Programa de Atención Integral de Servicios de Salud, the 
Borrower’s program for delivering basic health services in its territory adopted in 
2002. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means a procurement plan of the Borrower prepared for the 
Project and adopted by MIDES and MINSA on May 24, 2007, as referred to in 
paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
20. 
 “RO” means Red de Oportunidades, the Borrower’s program for alleviating 
poverty in its territory by delivering 5 year term conditional cash transfers to the 
poorest segments of its population, in rural, urban and indigenous areas, as 
adopted in April 2006. 
 
21. 
“Training” means in respect of Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 in the table in Section 
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their 
training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training 
facility rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction 
and distribution expenses not otherwise covered under said Section IV.A.2 of 
Schedule 
2 
to 
this 
Agreement.
19
 
