CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7432-TUN  
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Municipal Solid Waste Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 22, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7432-TUN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 22, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixteen million eight hundred 
thousand Euros (EUR 16,800,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
-2- 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through ANGed in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the  
Borrower’s Decree No. 2005-2317 dated August 22, 2005, related to the 
establishment of ANGed has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ANGed to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
-3- 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Development and International 
Cooperation. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
1000 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
216-71-351666/ 
216-71-799069 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
-4- 
 
AGREED at Washington, D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
By /s / Mohamed Nejib Hachana 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By / s / Daniela Gressani 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening the 
sustainability of municipal solid waste management through: (i) the establishment of a 
solid waste management planning and implementation system; and (ii) the closing and 
rehabilitation of certain environmentally damaging dump sites.  
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Institutional Support and Capacity Building
(a) 
ANGed Institutional Support & Capacity Building  
 
Provision of technical assistance to ANGed to: (i) identify, plan and 
carry out capacity building activities for ANGed with a view to ensure 
integrated municipal solid waste management with regard to collection, 
transport, transfer, recycling, valorization and final disposal of said 
waste; (ii) propose cost optimization and the establishment of financial 
monitoring systems support; (iii) carrying out studies on the evaluation 
and optimization of use of certain disposal sites; and (iv) establish a 
management system for the monitoring and control of emission 
reductions and CDM activities of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Regional Planning, Inter-Communality  and Cost Optimization  
 
Development of necessary expertise for reducing cost and increasing 
revenues of solid waste management system at  municipal levels  with 
private sector participation including: (i) development of  master plans 
for the sustainable management of municipal solid waste in selected 
governorates; (ii) design of inter-communality schemes for selected 
governorates; and (iii) piloting  an inter-communality scheme at the 
Nabeul governorate.  
 
(c) 
Institutional Support and Capacity Building for ANPE  
 
Carrying out of activities identified in the context of the Equivalence and 
Acceptability Report on the use of the Borrower’s system for 
environmental assessment in the municipal solid waste sector, including: 
(i) review of the terms of reference of the municipal solid waste sector; 
(ii) development of sectoral guidelines for environmental assessments; 
and (iii) building the requisite capacity to review environmental 
assessments in the waste sector. 
-6- 
(d) 
Mitigation of Social Impacts 
 
Identification and initiation of communication activities for the 
improvement of the livelihood of waste collectors in selected dump sites, 
and discussion of options for the reinstatement of said collectors and 
mitigation of social risks caused by the closing and rehabilitation of 
dump sites by private operators and/or by ANGed.  
 
2.   
Infrastructure Construction, Landfill Gas Collection and Treatment, and 
Dump Sites Rehabilitation
(a) 
Landfill Construction 
 
Construction of a cell in the Djebel Chekir landfill in the Greater Tunis 
area.  
 
 
(b) 
Collection and Treatment of Landfill Gases  
 
Designing, building and operating a system of gas collection and flaring 
of the biogas for the Djebel Chekir landfill, and the first cell of each of 
the nine (9) new landfills in Bizerte, Sousse, Monastir, Kairouan, Sfax, 
Gabes, Jerba, Nabeul and Medenine, all in accordance with international 
standards and norms.   
 
(c) 
Rehabilitation of Dump Sites     
 
Rehabilitation of about seven (7) dump sites in selected governorates and 
municipalities.  
 
3. 
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, including the provision of equipment and 
training to PMU staff, to assist in the carrying out and monitoring of the Project.  
-7- 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain a Project 
Management Unit within ANGed, with terms of reference and with a 
composition satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU shall be responsible for overall 
Project oversight, supervision, monitoring and coordination.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain a Steering 
Committee, to be chaired by the Minister of Environment and Sustainable 
Development or his representative, and to include representatives from ministries 
and any other structures and persons concerned by the Project. The SC shall be 
responsible, inter alia, for providing oversight and strategic direction to the 
Project and for facilitating inter-agency collaboration and cooperation. 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Project to be carried out in conformity with the 
provisions of the Environmental Legislation, the EMPs, the Equivalence and 
Acceptability Report and the RPF; (ii) shall inform the Bank of any 
developments in the legislation, rules or procedures of, or applicable to, the 
Borrower that may affect the implementation of the Project; and (iii) shall not 
change, modify or otherwise amend said EMPs, Report and RPF without prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause ANGed to ensure that: 
 
(a) 
prior to the carrying out of any Project activities not identified, assessed, 
nor included in the EA, such activities shall be subject to an 
environmental assessment, under terms of reference and in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(b)  
mitigating and monitoring measures of the selected landfills are carried 
out in accordance with the EMPs. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, in the context of the reports referred to in Section II, Part A 
of this Schedule, cause to be prepared and provided to the Bank for its review 
semestrial reports on the implementation of the EMPs. The Bank may provide 
comments as appropriate on said reports, notably to agree with ANGed on 
remedial actions to be taken by ANGed to achieve compliance with the 
Environmental Legislation and the RPF. 
 
-8- 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project, including 
the status of the implementation of the EMPs, and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Project Financial Statements audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of 
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I, III and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
-9- 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. For purposes of Part 2(b) of 
the Project, the contract shall be awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding following the design, build and operate approach. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)   
National Competitive Bidding of the Borrower may be used for procurement of 
goods and works for the Project, provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
(i) 
the bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award criteria and 
bidder qualification criteria; 
 
(ii) 
technical, administrative and financial envelopes are publicly and 
simultaneously opened; 
 
(iii) 
bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in the 
bid documents and quantified in monetary terms and contracts are 
awarded to the qualified bidder with the lowest evaluated responsive 
bid; 
 
(iv) 
prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding document 
to be used under National Competitive Bidding procurement must be 
submitted to, and found acceptable, by the Bank;  
 
(v) 
tenders will be advertised with no less than four (4) weeks notice for bid 
submission; 
 
(vi) 
bidders will be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail before 
the expiration of the deadline for submitting bids;  
 
(vii) 
if foreign firms wish to participate, they shall be allowed to do so and 
no provision for preferential treatment for national companies or 
-10- 
mandatory association between foreign and  national firms shall apply;  
 
(viii) 
the procedures shall include publication of evaluation results and the 
award of contract and provisions for bidders to protest; and 
 
(ix) 
no eligible bidder shall be excluded from participation, except on 
grounds of not meeting the necessary qualification. 
 
(b) 
Shopping 
 
(c) 
Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)      Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification 
(b) 
 Quality Based Selection 
(c) 
Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,500,000 or more; (b) the first two contracts 
procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, regardless of value; (c) all 
contracts for goods procured on the basis of direct contracting; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (e) each contract for individual consultants’ services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. With respect to consultant contracts costing the equivalent of $200,000 or less, the 
short list may comprise entirely national consultants if a sufficient number of firms exist 
in the Borrower’s territory and said firms present competitive offers. If, however, foreign 
firms express interest, these shall be allowed to participate. 
-11- 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in  Euros) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Works  
13,200,000 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ Services 
1,600,000 
100% 
(3) Unallocated 
2,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
16,800,000 
 
For purposes of Category (2) of this table, Consultants’ Services may include the 
provision of equipment and training. 
 
B.
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after December 1, 2006, 
for Eligible Expenditures.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
-12- 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; and (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
15 February 2012 
15 August 2012 
15 February 2013 
15 August 2013 
15 February 2014 
15 August 2014 
15 February 2015 
15 August 2015 
15 February 2016 
15 August 2016 
15 February 2017 
15 August 2017 
15 February 2018 
15 August 2018 
15 February 2019 
15 August 2019 
15 February 2020 
15 August 2020 
15 February 2021 
15 August 2021 
15 February 2022 
15 August 2022 
15 February 2023 
15 August 2023 
2.00 
2.00 
0.00 
2.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
6.60 
6.50 
6.50 
2.00 
0.00 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
6.50 
3.00 
0.00 
6.20 
5.40 
4.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.80 
-13- 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
-14- 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
-15- 
APPENDIX 
 
1. 
“ANGed” means Agence Nationale de Gestion des Déchets, the Borrower’s 
National Agency for Waste Management, established and operating pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decree No. 2005-2317 dated August 22, 2005, or any successor 
thereto. 
2. 
“ANPE” means Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l’Environnement, the 
Borrower’s National Agency for Environmental Protection, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 88-20 dated April 13, 1988, the 
implementation decree No. 88-1784 dated October 18, 1988, and as amended by 
Law 1992-115 of November 30, 1992, or any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“CDM” means Clean Development Mechanism, as such expression is defined in 
Article 12 of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change.  
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Assessments” or “EAs” means environmental assessments, 
acceptable to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower, evaluating the environmental 
impact of the Project and setting forth the mitigating, institutional, and 
monitoring measures for the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Legislation” means the Borrower’s set of rules, regulations, 
legislation, decrees,  arrêtés, or decisions, including, but not limited to, Decree 
No. 1991-2005 of July 11, 2005 on environmental impact assessments, the 
sectoral terms of reference for the environmental impact study of the municipal 
solid waste projects, legislation regarding the municipal solid waste management, 
legislation applicable to classified industries, legislation governing air, water and 
soil emission standards,  and all secondary legislation related thereto. 
 
8. 
“EMPs” means the environmental management plans, duly prepared by the 
Borrower, which sets out the environmental mitigation and protection measures 
in respect of the carrying out of Part 2(b) of the Project, as well as the 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
measures, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
-16- 
9. 
“Equivalence and Acceptability Report” means the report dated March 30, 2006, 
prepared by the Bank in collaboration with the Borrower, for piloting the use of 
the Borrower’s environmental assessment system. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
 
11. 
“PMU” or “Project Management Unit” means the Borrower’s Project 
Management Unit established by the Borrower’s Ministerial Decision of January 
26, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1, Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 18, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“RPF” or "Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Borrower's framework 
adopted in October 2006 defining the resettlement principles, land acquisition 
procedures and design criteria to be applied as appropriate to specific dump sites 
during Project implementation to the satisfaction of the Bank.  
 
15. 
“SC” or “Steering Committee” means the Borrower’s Project Steering 
Committee, established by the Borrower’s Ministerial Decision of January 26, 
2006, and referred to in paragraph 2, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
