CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7423-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Decentralized Rural Transport Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 16, 2007
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7423-PE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 16, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million dollars 
(US$50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  In the event that the Borrower selects 
not to capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not 
later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
-2- 
 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. (a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts 
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) 
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for 
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.09. The Borrower’s Minister at the time responsible for Finance or the Borrower’s 
Director General at the time responsible for public indebtedness, or any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required of permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
Article II of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project consistent 
with Decentralized Rural Roads Framework. To this end, the Borrower shall carry 
-3- 
 
out the Project through Provias Descentralizado within MTC in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower’s Decentralized Rural Roads Framework has been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Provias Descentralizado’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Co-financing Agreement has not become effective before the Co-
financing Deadline, or such later date as the Bank may agree, provided 
that the provisions of this subparagraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement. 
 
(d) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  (A)  the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the loan proceeds of the Co-financing Agreement 
has been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the Co-financing Agreement; or (B)  such loan has become 
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii)  
Subparagraph (i) of this subparagraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:  (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Co-
financing Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
-4- 
 
4.02. The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of 
the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (d) (i) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of such Section. 
4.03. The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement is 
twelve months after the Effective Date. 
 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that: 
the Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank and through a Directoral Resolution by Provias Descentralizado. 
5.02. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on June 
19, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Jr. Junín 319 
 
Lima, Peru 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(511) 426-8500 
 
6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
-5- 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-6- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Luis Carranza Ugarte 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marcelo Giugale 
 
Authorized Representative 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to territorial development and to the 
fight against rural poverty in the Borrower’s territory by improving access of rural 
households and entrepreneurs to goods, social services and income generating 
opportunities through reduced transport costs and better rural transport infrastructure. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Component 1. 
Improvement of Rural Transport Infrastructure 
 
Scaling-up and improving the decentralized management of rural roads in the entire 
Borrower’s territory by: (i) rehabilitating or improving rural roads prioritized through the 
Participatory Provincial Road Plans; (ii) improving and re-constructing selected 
connecting bridges; (iii) insuring periodic maintenance of rural roads; (iv) improving 
non-motorized transport tracks; (v) improving other types of rural transport infrastructure 
(including river-based equipment); and (vi) launching initial activities for the stabilization 
of slopes and the protection of rural roads against river-based erosion. 
 
Component 2. 
Institutional Development 
 
a. 
Providing comprehensive institutional strengthening to MTC at the central level 
in order to improve regulatory capacity by, inter alia: (i) defining and regulating policies 
for rural transport; (ii) promoting research and innovation in rural transport; (iii) 
launching a fiscal revenues and road development study; and (iv) assisting in other 
related activities for MTC agencies involved in decentralized rural policies. 
 
b. 
Providing comprehensive institutional strengthening to District Municipalities and 
Provincial Municipalities in order to empower them to better implement their rural 
transport policies by, inter alia: (i) preparing or updating Participatory Provincial Road 
Plans; (ii) improving the existing routine maintenance system with micro-enterprises; (iii) 
enhancing local capacity to handle social, cultural and environmental safeguards; (iv) 
mobilizing municipal financing for rural transport; (v) promoting private financing for 
rural transport; (vi) scaling-up the geographic information system experience; and (vii) 
assisting said municipalities as well as Selected PIIs and Selected PRIs in other related 
capacity-building activities.  
 
Component 3. 
Transport for Territorial Development 
 
Enhancing impact of improved transport conditions on rural development by fostering 
complementarities with other types of investments and by promoting productive activities 
through:  
 
-8- 
 
a. 
the Local Development Window aimed at accelerating the emergence of 
productive activities in the areas where transport conditions have been improved; and 
 
b. 
the Rural Infrastructure Pilot aimed at increasing in the Selected Provinces the 
efficiency and effectiveness of rural economic infrastructure investments through 
enhanced coordination and promotion of greater complementarities between sectors, as 
well as through works on rural roads segments as prioritized under the Rural 
Infrastructure Plans. 
 
Component 4. 
Project Management 
 
Supporting Provias Descentralizado in its day-to-day management of the Project, 
through: 
a. 
the provision of technical advisory services for monitoring, evaluation and audits, 
including the updating or expansion of SIGAT and related training activities, mid-term 
and final impact evaluation studies and technical, operational, environmental and social 
auditing activities to be performed during Project implementation; and 
b. 
administrative and operational support. 
 
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
To facilitate the coordination of Project implementation, the Borrower agrees to 
and shall abide by the following: 
 
1. 
the obligation of the Borrower (through MEF) to make the proceeds of the Loan 
as well as other adequate resources for the Project available to MTC and to Provias 
Descentralizado;
2. 
the obligation of the Borrower (through MTC) to:  (i) carry out the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, 
financial, engineering, public utility, social, cultural and environmental standards 
and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of the Project 
Operational Manual; (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices defined in this Agreement and in the Project 
Operational Manual, the operations, the resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Project; and (iii) maintain adequate reporting in accordance with the standards 
specified in this Agreement and in the Project Operational Manual; 
 
3. 
the requirement that the goods and services needed for the Project and to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Section III of this Schedule and in the Project Operational 
Manual;  
 
4. 
the right of the Bank to inspect, by itself or jointly with the Borrower, if the Bank 
shall so request, the goods and services financed by the Loan under the Project, as 
well as the results achieved, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; and 
 
5. 
the right of the Bank to obtain from the Borrower all information as the Bank 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial 
conditions of the activities and results financed by the Project. 
 
B. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by MTC through Provias 
Descentralizado in accordance with this Agreement and the Project Operational Manual, 
including the Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework, the Resettlement Policy 
Framework and the Environmental and Social Management Framework, and except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive or fail to enforce any provision 
of said documents without the Bank’s prior written approval.  In case of any conflict 
between the terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
-10- 
 
C. 
The Borrower through MTC shall appoint no later than two months after the 
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain within Provias Descentralizado until the 
completion of the execution of the Project, competent staff in charge of Project 
implementation in adequate numbers in accordance with the staffing plan in the Project 
Operational Manual with adequate and satisfactory qualifications and experience. 
 
D. 
The Borrower through Provias Descentralizado shall maintain, until the 
completion of the execution of Component 3.b. of the Project, the Coordination Group 
which shall meet at least annually. 
 
E. 
The Borrower through Provias Descentralizado shall: (a) enter into and thereafter 
implement each Participating Agreement and each Financing Agreement; (b) exercise its 
rights and carry out its obligations under each Participating Agreement and Financing 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and of the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of Components 1 and 3.b. of the Project; (c) cause each 
Selected Municipality, Selected PRI and Selected PII, respectively to carry out their 
obligations under each Participating Agreement and Financing Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of Components 1 and 3.b. of the Project; and (d) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce 
any Participating Agreement and Financing Agreement or any substantial provision 
thereof. In case of any conflict between the terms of said Participating Agreements or 
Financing Agreements and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
 
F. 
The Borrower through Provias Descentralizado shall: (a) prior to the submission 
of the Loan withdrawal application for the respective Project activities under Categories 
(1) and (3) (b) of the table under Section IV.A. below, enter into a Financing Agreement 
in form and substance acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with paragraph 5 above; 
(b) furnish to the Bank a report each year on November 30, starting on November 30, 
2007, indicating and listing the existing Financing Agreements entered into; and (c) make 
said Financing Agreements available to the Bank upon request. 
G. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the Loan proceeds was 
used for items improperly procured in violation of Section III to this Schedule and the 
Project Operational Manual or was not used for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall 
refund any such portion to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
 
H. 
The Borrower, through MTC, shall cause Provias Descentralizado to: (a) have all 
the procurement records and documentation for each fiscal year of the Project audited, in 
accordance with appropriate procurement auditing principles by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
procurement records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
-11- 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MTC, shall cause Provias Descentralizado to 
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the 
basis of the performance indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist 
of the following: 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Target Date: End of the Project 
1. Number of km of rural roads rehabilitated  
3,000 
 
2. Number of km of rural roads receiving periodic 
maintenance at Project standards 
 
11,200 
 
3. Number of km of non-motorized tracks 
improved 
 
2,650 
 
4. Number of bridges rehabilitated or improved 
and maintained  
50 
 
5. Number of private and community productive 
activities financed and implemented through the 
Local Development Window / number of said 
activities identified and assessed. 
 
50/200 
 
6. Number of Rural Infrastructure Plans prepared 
and approved 
 
15 
7. Number of Selected PIIs under the Rural 
Infrastructure Pilot 
 
15 
8. Number of Selected Provinces where rural 
infrastructure investments prioritized by Rural 
Infrastructure Plans have been implemented  
15 
9. Amount of resources (in US$) dedicated by 
Provincial Municipalities and District 
Municipalities to rural transport activities as 
described in the executed Financing Agreements 
 
75 million 
-12- 
 
Performance Indicators 
Target Date: End of the Project 
10. Number of Selected PRIs and Selected PIIs 
 
150 
11. Number of Participatory Provincial Road 
Plans approved 
 
150 
12. Number of qualified micro-enterprises 
delivering quality routine maintenance whose 
creation has been promoted through the Project 
 
120 
13. Number of one-year equivalent permanent 
unskilled jobs generated by micro-enterprises 
 
1,400 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than September 30, 2012. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MTC, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through MTC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods, works and non-consultant services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
-13- 
 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Non-Consultants’ 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, works, goods and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for works, goods and non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Force Account 
(e) Community Participation  
The procurement of works, goods and non-consultant services following the above 
procurement methods will be made using standard bidding documents and procedures 
agreed with the Bank and subject to the provisions of paragraph E below. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
-14- 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Single-source Selection 
(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 
5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines 
for 
the 
Selection 
of 
Individual Consultants 
(f) Procedures for the selection of 
Service Delivery Contractors as per the 
Procurement Plan 
The procurement of consultants’ services following the above procurement methods will 
be made subject to the provisions of paragraph E below. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Special Provisions 
 
1. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in 
this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the 
procurement of works, goods and non-consultant services under this Section: 
 
(a) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents. 
 
(b) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate, 
shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the 
procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MTC, shall utilize standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bids or any documentation 
related to such bids with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participate in the 
bidding process. 
 
(e) 
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids submitted for a contract to 
be subsequently awarded. 
-15- 
 
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in 
this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants: 
 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
 
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to 
participate in the selection process. 
 
(c) 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding 
a contract for consulting services. 
 
(d) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees 
to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association that are different from those required for 
Peruvian consultants. 
 
(e) 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, at the time he or she 
is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service 
office or any other position in any agency of the Borrower, nor shall such 
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the 
conclusion of his or her consulting services. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
-16- 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) 
Goods, 
works 
and 
consultants’ 
services 
for 
Component 1 of the Project 
35,700,000 
85% 
(2) Goods and consultants’ 
services for Component 2 of 
the Project 
 6,200,000 
85% 
(3) 
Goods, 
Works 
and 
consultants’ services for: 
(a) Component 3.a of the 
Project; and 
(b) Component 3.b of the 
Project 
 
500,000 
 
3,500,000 
 
85% 
(4) Goods and consultants’ 
services for Component 4.a 
of the Project 
 1,000,000 
85% 
(5) Unallocated 
 
3.100,000 
 
(6) Front-end Fee 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.04 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(7) Premium for Interest 
Rate Caps and Collars 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.08 (c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.04 of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end Fee;  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made during the twelve months immediately before this date but on 
or after June 1, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) through (3); 
 
-17- 
 
(c) 
under Category (1) unless at least one Participating Agreement and one 
Financing Agreement, different from those mentioned in subparagraph (d) below,  have 
been executed in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
under Category (3) (b) unless at least one Participating Agreement and one 
Financing Agreement, different from those mentioned in subparagraph (c) above, have 
been executed in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2012. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall cause Provias Descentralizado to:   
 
A. 
no later than six months after the Effective Date, appoint the independent auditors 
as referred to in Section II.B.3 above; under terms of reference and with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
B. 
no later than twelve months after the Effective Date, hire the procurement 
auditors as referred to in Section I.H above, under terms of reference and with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III above; 
 
C. 
later than twelve months after the Effective Date, submit to the Bank for its 
review and comments a plan describing the proposed organization of Provias 
Descentralizado by 2011 and its action plan for 2007-2011; 
 
D. 
no later than twelve months after the Effective Date, submit to the Bank for its 
review and comments a copy of the minutes of the Coordination Group in which the 
output for the first nine Rural Infrastructure Plans will be discussed; 
 
E. 
no later than twenty four months after the Effective Date, submit to the Bank for 
its review and comments a report on the situation, efficiency and sustainability of routine 
road maintenance activities with micro-enterprises on the roads rehabilitated under the 
Rural Roads Project and the Second Rural Roads Project; and  
 
F. 
no later than thirty six months after the Effective Date, submit to the Bank for its 
review and comments a copy of the minutes of the Coordination Group in which the 
Rural Infrastructure Pilot under Component 3.b. of the Project is evaluated and options 
for scaling it up are discussed. 
 
-18- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
February 15, 2017 
 
August 15, 2017 
 
33.33% 
 
33.33% 
 
February 15, 2018 
 
33.34% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
-19- 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals 
made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
-20- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Co-financier” means the Inter-American Development Bank. 
 
3. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of fifty million dollars (US$50,000,000) to be 
provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project. 
 
4. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
6. 
“Coordination Group” means a forum in charge of overall supervision of 
Component 3.b of the Project coordinated by Provias Descentralizado and 
comprising, inter alia, representatives from MEF and the ministries in charge of 
transportation, sanitation, electrification, irrigation and communication. 
 
7. 
“Decentralized Rural Roads Framework” means the framework designed to 
improve the decentralized management of rural roads in the Borrower’s territory 
and set forth or referred to in the letter dated October 31, 2006 from the Provias 
Descentralizado to the Bank (Oficio No. 562-2006-MTC/21). 
 
8. 
“District Municipality” means a local subdivision within a Province in the 
Borrower’s territory established and operating under the Borrower’s Organic Law 
No. 27972, dated May 27, 2003. 
 
9. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the document 
published and available to the public on the website www.mtc.gob.pe, dated 
September 2, 2006 and outlining social and environment preservation 
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures 
under the Project as well as for the handling of chance finding of cultural property 
goods; as said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
approval. 
 
10. 
“Financing Agreement” means an agreement (Convenio de Financiamiento), in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to be executed among Provias 
Descentralizado on the one hand and Provincial Municipalities, interested District 
Municipalities within a Selected Province as well as Selected PIIs and Selected 
PRIs on the other hand for the implementation of Components 1 and 3.b. of the 
-21- 
 
Project and for other efficient rural transport activities, all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
12. 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework” means the document published and 
available to the public on the website www.mtc.gob.pe, dated August 23, 2006 
and outlining implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring 
procedures for indigenous peoples under the Project; as said plan may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
13. 
“Local Development Window” means an initiative to identify and promote private 
and community productive activities complementing the improvement of 
transport conditions in poor Provinces as initiated under the Second Rural Road 
Project and as established and operating under the Project Operational Manual. 
 
14. 
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
 
15. 
“MTC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Communications. 
 
16. 
“Participating Agreement” means an agreement (Convenio de Adhesión), in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to be executed among Provias 
Descentralizado on the one hand and Provincial Municipalities and, as needed, a 
majority of interested District Municipalities within a Selected Province on the 
other hand for the implementation of Components 1 and 3.b. of the Project, all in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
17. 
“Participatory Provincial Road Plans” means a document prepared in a 
participatory manner for the planning of rural roads in each Province as provided 
under the Project Operational Manual. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 2, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
20. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project, 
satisfactory to the Bank to be adopted through a Directoral Resolution of Provias 
Descentralizado, which shall contain, inter alia:
(i) the terms of reference, 
functions and responsibilities for the personnel of Provias Descentralizado in 
charge of daily Project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation; (ii) 
the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for the selection of the Selected 
Provinces, Selected Municipalities, Selected PRIs and Selected PIIs; (iii) 
-22- 
 
procedures for procurement of works, goods and services, as well as for financial 
management and audits (i.e. financial audit and procurement audit) of the Project; 
(iv) the indicators and the methodology to be used in the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; (v) flow and disbursement arrangements of Project 
funds; (vi) model forms for Participating Agreements and Financing Agreements; 
(vii) guidelines for participatory road planning and rural economic infrastructure 
planning; (viii) the ministerial resolutions approving the administrative 
organization of, and the staffing plan for, Provias Descentralizado; (ix) the 
Indigenous Peoples’  Planning Framework; (x) the Resettlement Policy 
Framework; and (xi) the Environmental and Social Management Framework. 
 
21. 
“Provias Descentralizado” means “Proyecto Especial de Infraestructura de 
Transporte Descentralizado”, the Project implementing unit within the Vice 
Ministry of Transports of MTC. 
 
22. 
“Provias Descentralizado’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Supreme Decree 
No. 029-2006-MTC, dated August 10, 2006 and published on August 12, 2006. 
 
23. 
“Province” means a territorial subdivision in the Borrower’s territory under the 
jurisdiction of a Provincial Municipality and including two or more District 
Municipalities as established and operating under Article 3, Title I of the 
Borrower’s Organic Law No. 27972, dated May 27, 2003. 
 
24. 
“Provincial Municipality” means a local subdivision with jurisdiction over the 
respective Province in the Borrower’s territory established and operating under 
the Borrower’s Organic Law No. 27972, dated May 27, 2003. 
 
25. 
“PII” or “Provincial Infrastructure Institute” means an institute in the Borrower’s 
territory established and operating under its respective Municipal Ordinance. 
 
26. 
“PRI” or “Provincial Road Institute” means an institute in the Borrower’s territory 
established and operating under its respective Municipal Ordinance. 
 
27. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the document published and available to 
the public on the website www.mtc.gob.pe, dated August, 23, 2006 and outlining 
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for 
involuntary resettlement under the Project; as said plan may be amended from 
time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
28. 
“Rural Infrastructure Pilot” means an initiative aiming at increasing in the 
Selected Provinces the efficiency and effectiveness of economic rural 
infrastructure investments in transport, sanitation, electrification, irrigation and 
communication through enhanced coordination and promotion of greater 
complementarities between sectors, as provided under the Project Operational 
Manual. 
 
-23- 
 
29. 
“Rural Infrastructure Plans” means a planning instrument prepared by Provincial 
Municipalities and District Municipalities to prioritize rural economic 
infrastructure investments, based on the economic potential of Selected Provinces 
as provided under the Project Operational Manual. 
 
30. 
“Rural Roads Project” means the project described in Annex 2 to the Loan 
Agreement No. 3962-PE executed between the Borrower and the Bank on 
December 7, 1995. 
 
31. 
“Second Rural Roads Project” means the project described in Annex 2 to the 
Loan Agreement No. 4614-PE executed between the Borrower and the Bank on 
June 26, 2001. 
 
32. 
“Selected Municipality” means a Provincial Municipality or District Municipality 
in the Borrower’s territory that has met to the Bank’s satisfaction the selection 
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
33. 
“Selected PII” means each and all selected Provincial Infrastructure Institutes in 
the Borrower’s territory that have met to the Bank’s satisfaction the selection 
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual and have executed a Financing 
Agreement for the implementation of Components 1 and 3.b of the Project. 
 
34. 
“Selected PRI” means each and all selected Provincial Road Institutes in the 
Borrower’s territory that have met to the Bank’s satisfaction the selection criteria 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual for the implementation Components 1 
and 3.b of the Project. 
 
35. 
“Selected Province” means each of at least fifteen Provinces in the Borrower’s 
territory that has met to the Bank’s satisfaction the selection criteria set forth in 
the Project Operational Manual and has executed a Financing Agreement for the 
execution of the Rural Infrastructure Pilot under Component 3.b of the Project. 
 
36. 
“SIGAT” means Sistema Integrado de Gestión Administrativa y Técnica, an 
integrated system for technical and administrative management used by Provias 
Descentralizado to monitor Project implementation. 
 
