CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7451-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Institutions Building Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 21, 2007 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7451-UR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 21, 2007, between REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twelve million one hundred thousand Dollars 
($12,100,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  In the event that the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-
end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 days after the 
Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
- 2 -
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through MEF in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on December 1, 2008. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Colonia No. 1089, Tercer Piso 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable:  
Telex:  
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
MINECON 
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo Uruguay 
(59-82) 1712-2688 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
(1-202) 522-3131 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at Montevideo, República Oriental del Uruguay, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Danilo Astori 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower’s public sector performance by:  
(i) supporting the implementation of its public sector modernization program in the areas of 
customs administration, monitoring and evaluation, performance-based budgeting and e-
government; and (ii) strengthening its institutions involved with the design and implementation of 
public policy reforms in the areas of taxation, promotion of business environment and social 
protection. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Strengthening the Borrower’s Customs Administration’s Human Resources Management
Supporting the modernization of the Borrower’s customs administration (Dirección Nacional de 
Aduanas) through improvements to its human resources management functions, by providing 
technical assistance for: 
 
(a) 
the design and application of an integrated human resources management 
strategy, including the interconnection of relevant information systems; 
 
(b) 
the review of job profiles, with differentiated strategies for the managerial and 
operational levels; 
 
(c) 
the carrying out of skills evaluations of existing employees and the provision of 
training focused on skills necessary to fill the revised job profiles; 
 
(d) 
the design of an exit policy for those employees who do not match the 
requirements of the institution, as well as for those seeking voluntary retirement; 
 
(e) 
the establishment of competitive, merit-based selection and recruitment policies; 
 
(f) 
the definition of an integrated strategic plan for human resource management; 
 
(g) 
the design and deployment of a performance evaluation policy and process;  
 
(h) 
the proposal of a new incentive-pay system for customs; and 
 
(i) 
other activities identified by the Borrower and approved by the Bank which are 
aimed at supporting the modernization of the Borrower’s customs administration. 
 
Part 2: Improving the Borrower’s Institutional Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Enhancing the Borrower’s public sector performance and transparency by providing technical 
assistance to support: 
 
- 6 -
(a) 
the strengthening of the institutional framework for monitoring and evaluation;  
 
(b) 
the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of central government 
programs in approximately nine central government institutions, focused on:  (i) supporting 
improved definition and use of indicators; (ii) developing annual operational plans based on a 
logical framework methodology; and (iii) implementing operational improvement programs; 
 
(c) 
the design of instruments to include civil society in monitoring and evaluation 
processes; and 
 
(d) 
other activities identified by the Borrower and approved by the Bank which are 
aimed at enhancing the Borrower’s public sector performance and transparency. 
 
Part 3: Supporting E-Government
Strengthening the coverage of the Borrower’s e-government applications to increase the 
transparency and efficiency of the interaction between the public sector and individuals and 
companies, by providing technical assistance for: 
 
(a) 
the development of a national e-government strategy; 
 
(b) 
the development of a strategy for public sector electronic information exchange; 
 
(c) 
the definition of public sector information technology security policies; 
 
(d) 
the improvement of the Borrower’s registry of suppliers and contractors; 
 
(e) 
the redesign and enhancement of the e-procurement platform and strategy to 
promote its broad-based use by suppliers and contractors; 
 
(f) 
the design and implementation of a national strategy to extend access to and 
usage of the e-procurement platform to all beneficiaries, including the public and private sectors 
and citizens at large; 
 
(g) 
the broadening of the e-procurement information technology platform to 
accommodate broad-based usage; 
 
(h) 
the design and development of a public transactions portal for broad-based access 
and use by the Borrower’s citizens; and  
 
(i) 
other activities identified by the Borrower and approved by the Bank which are 
aimed at strengthening the coverage of the Borrower’s e-government applications to increase the 
transparency and efficiency of the interaction between the public sector and individuals and 
companies. 
 
- 7 -
Part 4: Institutional Strengthening of BPS for the Implementation of Tax and Social Protection 
Reforms
Strengthening BPS’s institutional capacity, including those areas necessary to: 
 
(a) 
adequately implement the Borrower’s new personal income tax, focusing on the 
development of systems, infrastructure and technical capacity necessary to improve BPS’s 
operation of the tax and collections areas, including:  (i)  human resources management; (ii) 
information systems management; (iii) control, business intelligence, collections, and risk 
management; (iv) taxpayer assistance; (v) outreach, information campaigns and surveys; and (vi) 
other areas proposed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank related to the implementation of 
the new personal income tax; and 
 
(b) 
undertake structural improvements to the Borrower’s social protection system by 
designing, developing and implementing an integrated, inter-institutional, social information 
system that brings together data on the characteristics and beneficiaries of social programs from 
various entities (Sistema de Información Integrada para el Área Social).
Part 5: Supporting Capital Markets and Corporate Transparency Reforms
(a) 
Supporting the Borrower to address the challenges associated with reforming the 
institutional, legal and regulatory, and infrastructure framework underlying capital markets 
through: (i) securities market promotion; (ii) institutional strengthening of the Borrower’s 
securities regulator; (iii) development and support for the implementation of changes to the 
regulatory framework governing the Borrower’s capital markets; (iv) implementation of 
international standards for securities markets regulation and securities settlement; (v) 
development of a risk-based supervisory framework, (vi) provision of computer hardware and 
software to support the institutional strengthening process; and (vii) other activities proposed by 
the Borrower and approved by the Bank aimed at improving the efficiency of capital markets. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening the Borrower’s corporate financial reporting framework to boost 
private investment, ensure financial sector stability and improve the governance of state-owned 
enterprises through:  (i) the updating and strengthening of the regulatory and institutional 
framework for the submission of financial reports; (ii) establishment of a sustainable and 
effective process for the adoption of IFRS; (iii) establishment of an independent control system 
for all forms of accounting report certification (including audits); and (iv) other activities 
proposed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank aimed at strengthening the Borrower’s 
corporate financial reporting framework. 
 
Part 6: Supporting Bankruptcy Regulation Reforms
Supporting the implementation of reforms to the Borrower’s bankruptcy legal framework 
through: 
 
(a) 
the preparation of draft regulations to the new bankruptcy law, including a report 
on procedural changes needed to support its implementation; 
- 8 -
(b) 
the provision of logistical support for court implementation of the reforms, 
including equipment, training materials and other inputs;  
 
(c) 
the carrying out of activities for awareness, outreach, and promotion of best 
practices; and  
 
(d) 
other activities proposed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank aimed at 
supporting the implementation of reforms to the Borrower’s bankruptcy legal framework. 
 
Part 7: Project Coordination and Strategy Development
(a) 
Supporting the PCU. 
 
(b) 
Supporting the Borrower’s Presidential Commission for the Transformation of 
the State (Comisión para la Transformación del Estado) in monitoring and evaluating the overall 
reform process. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out studies and other consultancies related to Project coordination 
and/or strategy development that are proposed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank. 
 
- 9 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower, through MEF, shall establish and maintain, during Project 
implementation, a Project coordination unit with functions, staffing and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia:
(a) a Project coordinator; (b) a 
procurement specialist; (c) a financial management specialist; and (d) administrative and 
support personnel. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MEF, shall convene at least once a year during Project 
implementation, a steering committee with composition, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational 
manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), such manual to include, inter 
alia: 
 
(i) 
the procedures for carrying out, monitoring and evaluating the Project; 
 
(ii) 
the final format of the financial statements, chart of accounts and the 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project; 
 
(iii) 
the composition, functions and responsibilities of the PCU and the 
steering committee referred to in paragraph 2 above; 
 
(iv) 
the performance indicators to be used for monitoring and evaluating the 
implementation of the Project; 
 
(v) 
the procedures to be followed for the identification and submission by 
the Borrower to the Bank for approval of activities under Parts 1(f), 2(d), 
3(i), 4(a)(vi), 5(a)(vii), 5(b)(iv), 6(d) and 7(c) of the Project; and 
 
(vi) 
the guidelines for the carrying out of small works. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In the case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
- 10 -
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports and Plans 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
(a) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall:  (i) 
no later than one month after the date of this Agreement, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
an operating plan, satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the activities to be carried out 
under the Project during the rest of the calendar year, including a time-table for such 
activities; and thereafter, no later than December 1 of each year throughout Project 
implementation, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual operating plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with respect to the activities to be carried out under the Project during the 
calendar year following the date of presentation of such plan, including a time-table for 
such activities; and (ii) carry out such plans in accordance with their terms. 
 
(b) 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank in writing, the Borrower shall not carry out 
any activities which are not included in an operating plan previously approved by the 
Bank. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was 
made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and non-consultant 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
- 11 -
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consultant services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Limited International Bidding 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding 
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Least Cost Selection 
(c)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  Single-source Selection 
(e)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
- 12 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this Section, 
the Procurement Guidelines or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern 
the procurement of goods, works, non-consultant services and consultants’ services, where 
applicable, under this Section. 
 
(a) 
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award. 
 
(b) 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding. 
 
(c) 
Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for bidding to be registered with local 
authorities, provided, however, that the information to be requested from such bidders is 
of such nature that it will not discourage their participation. 
 
(d) 
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order for a 
contract to be subsequently awarded. 
 
(e) 
After the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, clarification, 
and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations concerning awards shall not 
be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other persons not officially concerned with this 
process until the publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 
2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). 
 
(f) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding documents 
or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Uruguayan authorities as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure. 
 
(g) 
There shall be no preference for domestic contractors. 
 
(h) 
The prices of contracts for consultants’ services over one year duration may be adjusted. 
 
(i) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for 
participating in the selection criteria. 
 
(j) 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions of interest, the evaluation report of bids and proposals, and contract awards 
of all goods, works, and consultants’ services, as the case may be, shall be published in a 
web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
- 13 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services, non-consultant 
services, Training and 
Operating Costs for Parts 1, 2, 
3, 4, 5 and 7 of the Project 
11,263,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, consultants’ 
services, non-consultant 
services, Training and 
Operating Costs for Part 6 of 
the Project 
265,000 
100% 
(3) Refund of the Project 
Preparation Advance 
200,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (a) of the General 
Conditions 
(4)  Premium for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.08 
(c) 
of 
this 
Agreement 
(5)  Unallocated 
372,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,100,000 
 
For the purposes of this schedule, the term: 
 
(a) 
“Training” means the reasonable non-consultant expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities (including workshops, 
conferences and seminars) under the Project, including travel costs, per diem of trainers, 
facilitators and stakeholders, and training materials. 
 
(b) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of specialized staff, including 
procurement staff in the MEF and sundry recurrent expenses directly related to the performance 
of the Project activities, which would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
- 14 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account (other than to repay the Project Preparation Advance) 
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee, if the Borrower 
selects not to capitalize the Front-end Fee; 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after December 1, 2006 for Eligible 
Expenditures under Category 1 (but in no case earlier than twelve months 
immediately before the date of this Agreement); or 
 
(c) 
under Category 2, until the bankruptcy law which was submitted by the 
Borrower’s Executive to the Borrower’s Parliament on August 21, 2006 has been 
approved by Parliament without substantial changes in the opinion of the Bank. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2011. 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2012 
 
through April 15, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
- 16 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
- 17 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“BPS” means Banco de Previsión Social, the Borrower’s social security fund. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006). 
 
6. 
“IFRS” means International Financial Reporting Standards, the set of accounting 
standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. 
 
7. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy 
and Finance. 
 
8. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual for the operation of the Project, 
dated April 12, 2007. 
 
9. 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated April 
12, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement 
signed on behalf of the Bank on January 30, 2007 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
March 9, 2007. 
 
