CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7463-YF 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Transport Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 27, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7463-YF 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 27, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty six million eight hundred 
thousand Euro (�36,800,000) (“Loan”), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a currency conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.08 of this Agreement, to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
2
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:  
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;  
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and  
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the PEPS, in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: that the 
Borrower’s Decision No. 115/05 has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
PEPS to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.  
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the 
PEPS. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the PEPS 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the PEPS in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the Republic of Serbia 
Kneza Miloša 20 
11000 Belgrade 
Republic of Serbia  
 
Facsimile: 
381-11-3618-961 
 
4
5
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Belgrade, Republic of Serbia, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
 
By /s/ Mirko Cvetkovic  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Simon Gray 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in reducing cost and 
improving safety for road users by means of: (a) improving the condition of selected road 
sections of the main and regional road network; (b) improving the effectiveness of road 
maintenance, through the introduction of performance-based contracting in two pilot 
regions; and (c) introducing safe road design principles, road safety audits and targeted 
improvement measures.   
 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional parts: 
 
Part 1. Performance-Based Road Maintenance 
Support towards the rolling over and extension of the ongoing performance-
based road maintenance contracts under the Original Project in the pilot regions of Macva 
and Kolubara covering about 660km and 517km of main and regional roads respectively.  
 
Part 2. Road Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of at least seven additional sections of the primary road network 
including sections of the following roads: (a) Prokuplje – Mala Plana, (M-25, 8.3 km); 
(b) Odzaci and Kula (M3); (c) Medjuluzje – Krcevac (M23) and Krcevac – Topola (M4); 
(d) Marcovica (West of Cacak) – Ovcar Banja (M5); (e) Kac (East of Novi Sad) – Zabalj 
(M7); (f) Kruzni Put – Grocka – Smederevo (Regional road R100); and (g) Valjevo – 
Pricevici (M-4) all through the provision of works, goods and services.   
Part 3. Assorted Consultant Services
Provision of technical assistance for supervision of road maintenance and 
rehabilitation works, including environmental monitoring.  
 
Part 4.  Road Safety Improvement
Support towards road safety improvement activities, including elimination of 
dangerous (black) spots on the main road network and road safety audits of the 
rehabilitated sections and in the pilot regions of Macva and Kolubara. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the PEPS, the Borrower shall, 
through the ministry responsible for infrastructure, make the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the PEPS under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity (“Subsidiary Agreement”), under terms and conditions 
approved by the Bank.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
B. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
The Borrower shall cause PEPS to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
following institutional and other arrangements: 
 
1. 
The PIT, within the PEPS, shall have overall responsibility for Project 
implementation, including procurement, financial management, Project monitoring and 
evaluation, and management of environmental and social issues. 
 
2. 
The PEPS shall maintain the PIT, for the entire duration of Project 
implementation, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and with sufficient and 
suitable financial and technical resources.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the PEPS carries out the Project out in accordance with the respective 
terms of the Environmental Management Plan, and the policies, procedures and 
arrangements therein set forth are applied and implemented; and 
 
(b) 
the Environmental Management Plan, or any provision thereof,  shall 
not be  amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived or permitted to be 
amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived, except with the prior written 
approval of the Bank.   
 
8
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall cause PEPS to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause PEPS to maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause PEPS to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause PEPS to have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).   All goods, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
9
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services) 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services). The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other 
than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
services (other than consultants’ services). The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (subject to procedures outlined in the Annex to this 
 
Schedule 2) 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
10
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Least-Cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection Based on the Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 , 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(d) Single Source Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
11
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(1) Works 
34,300,000
90% 
 
(2) Goods 
600,000
90% 
 
(3) Consultants’ Services 
1,700,000
80% 
 
(4) Training 
100,000
100% 
 
(5) Operating Costs 
100,000
100% 
 
(6) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.08(c) 
of 
this 
Agreement and in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(7) Front-end Fee 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.04 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
36,800,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.    
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
 
12
ANNEX 
 
National Competitive Bidding: Additional Provisions 
 
For the purposes of using National Competitive Bidding Procedures, the 
following shall apply: 
 
(a) 
Registration 
 
(i) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
 
(ii) 
Where registration is required, bidders (1) shall be allowed a 
reasonable time to complete the registration process, and (2) 
shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, 
which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
 
(iii) 
Foreign bidders not from the territory of the Borrower shall not 
be precluded from bidding.  If a registration process is required, 
a foreign bidder declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be 
given a reasonable opportunity to register. 
 
(b) 
Advertising 
 
Invitations to bid in Serbian shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
local daily newspaper available over the territory of the Borrower allowing a minimum of 
30 days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(c) 
Participation by Publicly-owned enterprises 
 
Publicly-owned enterprises shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they 
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will 
be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(d) 
Bidding Documents 
 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of works or services, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(e) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
 
(i) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the 
bidder’s qualification information, technical and price bids, 
which shall be opened simultaneously at the public bid opening. 
13
(ii) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids. The name of the bidder, the total amount 
of each bid and any discounts offered shall be read aloud and 
recorded in the minutes of the public bid opening. 
 
(iii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. No merit point system will be used. 
 
(iv)   
Extensions of bid validity will be allowed once only for not more 
than thirty (30) days. No further extensions shall be requested 
without the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
(v) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having 
submitted the lowest-evaluated, substantially responsive bid and 
no negotiation shall take place. 
 
(f) 
Price Adjustment 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain an 
appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
(g) 
Rejection of Bids 
 
(i) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(ii) 
When the number of bids received is less than three, re-bidding 
shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(h) 
Securities 
 
Bid security shall not exceed three percent (3%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract and performance security not more than ten percent (10%) of this cost. No 
advance payment at the amount of more than ten percent (10%) of the contract price shall 
be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security. These securities 
shall be included in the bidding documents in a text and format acceptable to the Bank.  
 
The Regional Sample Bidding Documents for the Europe and Central Asia 
Region of the Bank, modified as acceptable to the Bank, shall be used. 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 15 and August 15 
Beginning August 15, 2012  
Through August 15, 2023 
 
4.17% 
On February 15, 2024 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
15
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
16
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan dated November 2003, 
describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to 
be undertaken during the implementation of the Project, and satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
 
6. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of office 
space rental. 
 
7. 
“Original Development Credit Agreement” means the Development Credit 
Agreement (Transport Rehabilitation Project) between Serbia and Montenegro 
and the International Development Association, dated June 9, 2004, (Credit No. 
3909 YF). 
 
8. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Development 
Credit Agreement. 
 
9. 
“PEPS” means the Public Enterprise Putevi Srbije, established by, and operating 
pursuant to, the Borrower’s Decision No. 115/05 (as defined herein before), or 
any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“PIT” means the Project Implementation Team, within the PEPS, and consisting 
of employees of the PEPS. 
 
11. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
17
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 25, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
