CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4834-IND 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 13, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 13, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General 
Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and 
eight million Dollars (USD208,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to  
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn 
Loan Balance, subject to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent 
(1.0%) of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee 
as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a 
rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, 
subject to any waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined 
by the Bank from time to time. 
- 2 -
2.06. The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To 
this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MPW in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The detailed engineering designs and bid documents for WP-1, in 
each case satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been adopted by the 
Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Bank shall 
have been adopted by the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
The Project Management Manual satisfactory to the Bank shall 
have been adopted by the Borrower. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall have shortlisted the Financial Management 
Experts in accordance with the Procurement Plan and the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
4.02. The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following:  the Environmental 
and Social Assessment Management Plan, and the Anti-Corruption Action 
Plan have been adopted by the Borrower and are legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Indonesia. 
 
4.03. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Treasury 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY 
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joel Hellman 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve economic competitiveness by 
improving the capacity and quality of strategic national roads on the Borrower’s 
islands of Java and Sumatra, improving road safety and increasing the efficiency, 
quality and transparency of works procurement and implementation in the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Improvements to Strategic National Roads
(a) 
Betterment of approximately 155 kilometers of urban and inter-
urban roads; 
 
(b) 
Expansion of road capacity on approximately 85 kilometers of 
urban and inter-urban roads, including bridges; 
 
(c) 
Construction of approximately 55 kilometers of new urban and 
inter-urban roads, including bridges; 
 
(d) 
Construction of a new bridge of approximately 50 meters on an 
inter-urban road; and 
 
(e) 
Implementation of a Performance-Based Contract Pilot Program 
on an approximately 110 kilometer section of the North Java Corridor, involving  
betterment of approximately 10 kilometers and maintenance of approximately 110 
kilometers. 
 
Part 2: Implementation Support
(a) 
Support to the DOP and the PMU in Project implementation, 
including 
environmental 
management, 
project 
performance 
monitoring, 
implementation of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, financial management 
monitoring and reporting; 
 
(b) 
Assistance to MPW in the design of works, pre-contract activities,  
supervision of construction and implementation management for Sub-Projects; 
 
- 6 -
(c) 
Assistance to MPW in preparation and implementation of the 
Performance-Based Contract Pilot Program; 
 
(d) 
Assistance to MPW in the procurement of consultancy services 
and works, including in implementation of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan; and 
 
(e) 
Assistance to MPW in carrying out financial and technical audits 
on Project works. 
 
Part 3: Road Sector Institutional Development
(a) 
Supporting the Borrower’s overall road safety strategy by: (i) 
developing an integrated road safety strategy and long-term plan, including an 
institutional framework; and (ii) developing a pilot integrated road accident 
database/analysis system, and establishing self-sustaining personnel development 
procedures for traffic police; and 
 
(b) 
Training of Project staff in the application of the Project 
Management Manual, including procurement procedures, financial management 
procedures, reporting procedures, and in the application of the Anti-Corruption 
Action Plan and the Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan. 
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through Bappenas, shall establish within one month of the 
Effective Date, and maintain until completion of the Project, the Project Steering 
Committee, chaired by the Deputy for Infrastructure of Bappenas, and including 
representatives from the MPW, the MOF, the MOT, and the Directorate of Traffic 
Police. The Project Steering Committee shall facilitate coordination among the 
Borrower’s Ministries, among the local governments of the Project Provinces, and 
among said Ministries and said local governments.  The PMU shall act as the 
secretariat to the Project Steering Committee. 
 
2. 
MPW shall be the executing agency for the Project.  DGH shall be the 
executing unit responsible for the overall management of the Project.  DOP shall 
be the implementing unit responsible for managing Project activities on a day-to-
day basis, and for implementing Parts 1, 2 and 3(b) of the Project.   
 
3. 
The Directorate General of Land Transport shall be the implementing unit 
responsible for Part 3(a)(i) of the Project.  The Directorate of Traffic Police shall 
be the implementing unit responsible for Part 3(a)(ii) of the Project.  The 
Borrower shall establish a Road Safety Steering Committee to oversee the process 
of implementation and coordination of Part 3(a) of the Project within one month 
of the Effective Date.  The PMU shall act as the secretariat to the Road Safety 
Steering Committee. 
 
4. 
MPW shall appoint a Project Manager in each local office of DGH located 
in an area in which one or more Sub-Projects shall be implemented.  The 
Borrower shall ensure that each Project Manager meets the MPW Project 
Manager Criteria for the period of the Project.  Each Project Manager shall report 
to the relevant sub-unit of DGH (Director of Roads and Bridges for Western 
Region for inter-urban roads and Director of Freeways and Urban Roads for urban 
roads).  DGH shall be responsible for coordinating Project implementation with 
the respective local government agencies located in each area in which one or 
more Sub-Projects shall be implemented, as set out in the Project Management 
Manual. 
- 8 -
5. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, the PMU, 
chaired by the Director of Planning of DOP, with terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank. The Borrower shall provide the PMU at all times with adequate 
funds and other resources, and shall ensure that the PMU is staffed by qualified 
and experienced personnel in adequate numbers, as shall be necessary to 
accomplish its functions, responsibilities and objectives, and in each case as shall 
be satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
B.
Project Implementation. 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
Adopt a Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall set out the Borrower’s implementation plan for the Project; 
 
(b) 
adopt a Project Management Manual, in Bahasa Indonesia, 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include: (i) Project implementation 
arrangements and organizational structure; (ii) financial management, reporting 
and auditing procedures meeting the requirements of Section II of this Schedule 2; 
(iii) environmental and social safeguards requirements and procedures for the 
Project included in the Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan 
and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework; (iv) procurement 
procedures for the Project including the Procurement Procedures set forth in 
Section III of this Schedule 2 and the Procurement Plan; (v) the Anti-Corruption 
Action Plan; (vi) procedures for monitoring and reporting the Project’s progress; 
and (vii) the MPW Project Manager Criteria;  
 
(c) 
carry 
out 
the 
Project 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
Project 
Implementation Plan, the Project Management Manual, the Anti-Corruption 
Action Plan, the Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan, the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, and the Procurement Procedures 
and Procurement Plan, in each case in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and  
 
(d) 
not amend, abrogate, suspend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Plan, the Project Management Manual, the Anti-Corruption 
Action Plan, the Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan, the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework or the Procurement Plan without 
the prior consent of the Bank. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall engage a Procurement Agent in accordance 
with the Procurement Plan and the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
- 9 -
Agreement to assist the Borrower in the selection and employment of the DSC, 
CTC and Procurement Advisor in accordance with the Procurement Plan; and 
 
(b) 
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:  
(i) retain the services of the Procurement Agent until completion of all 
procurement activities for the DSC, CTC and Procurement Advisor consultants’ 
services under the Project; and (ii) take all such steps as are necessary to ensure 
that the Procurement Agent is permitted to provide its services in accordance with 
its contractual terms of reference. 
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall engage a Procurement Advisor in accordance 
with the Procurement Plan and the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement to assist the Borrower in the procurement in accordance with the 
Procurement Plan of works for all Sub-Projects; and  
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall (i) 
retain the services of the Procurement Advisor until completion of all 
procurement activities for works under the Project; (ii) ensure that the 
Procurement Advisor shall at all times during Project implementation provide 
reports directly to DOP and shall provide a copy directly to the Inspectorate 
General in MPW and the Bank; and (iii) take all such steps as are necessary to 
ensure that the Procurement Advisor is permitted to provide his services in 
accordance with its contractual terms of reference.    
 
4. 
The Borrower shall engage a Public Notary with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank to assist the Borrower in the procurement of works for 
Sub-Projects under WP-1 and for consulting services where the Procurement 
Agent is not involved, in accordance with the Procurement Procedures set out in 
paragraphs 9 and 10 of Section III.E of this Schedule 2.   
 
5. 
The Borrower shall engage the DSC in accordance with the Procurement 
Plan and the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to assist 
the Borrower in the design and supervision of the works to be carried out under 
Part 1 of the Project.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (a) retain the services of the DSC until completion of the design and 
implementation of works under the Project; and (b) take all such steps as are 
necessary to ensure that the DSC are permitted to provide their services in 
accordance with their contractual terms of reference. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall engage the CTC in accordance with the Procurement 
Plan and the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to provide 
- 10 -
support to DOP and DGH under Part 2 of the Project.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) retain the services of the CTC until 
completion of the Project; and (ii) take all such steps as are necessary to ensure 
that the CTC are permitted to provide their services in accordance with their 
contractual terms of reference. 
 
7. 
Except as may be otherwise agreed by the Bank, WP-1 shall consist of the 
six Sub-Projects set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2.  
 
8. 
With respect to WP-2 and WP-3: 
 
(a) 
not later than June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 2007, 
and until the completion of the Project, a draft WP for all Sub-Projects to be 
commenced during the following Fiscal Year is prepared and furnished to the 
Bank for its review and comments, including: (i) the scope of the program; (ii) 
feasibility studies; (iii) the results of the environmental and social impact 
screening of the proposed works; (iv) cost estimates; (v) time-based 
implementation schedules; (vi) financing plan; (vii) budget arrangements; and 
(viii) procurement plan; and 
 
(b) 
not later than November 30 in each year, commencing November 
30, 2007, finalize and submit for approval to the Bank the above mentioned WP 
for implementation, including: (i) detailed engineering design and bidding 
documents; (ii) Environmental Management Plans, social impact assessments, and 
LARAPs, as required by the Environmental and Social Assessment Management 
Plan and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework; and (iii) anti-
corruption actions as required by the Anti-Corruption Action Plan. 
 
9. 
A project shall only qualify as a Sub-Project when the Bank has been 
furnished with evidence satisfactory to it that: 
 
(a) 
such proposed project has been approved by DGH as a priority and 
as compatible with applicable regional and local plans and included in the 
relevant WP approved by the Bank prior to the signing of the contract for the 
carrying out of works or activities for the proposed Sub-Project; 
 
(b) 
such proposed project has a minimum economic rate of return of 
fifteen percent as calculated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, or such lower 
economic rate of return as the Bank may agree in exceptional circumstances; 
 
- 11 -
(c) 
such proposed project has a minimum international roughness 
index (IRI) of 6.0 and a surface distress index (SDI) of more than 50, where such 
project is proposed for inclusion as a betterment Sub-Project under Part 1(a) and 
Part 1(e) of the Project; 
 
(d) 
such proposed project has a minimum volume to capacity ratio (for 
conditions prior to Sub-Project commencement) of 0.6, where such project is 
proposed for inclusion as a capacity expansion Sub-Project under Part 1(b) and 
Part 1(e) of the Project; and 
 
(e) 
necessary counterpart funding to fully finance the proposed works 
and other activities for such proposed project is available for such project to be 
implemented in accordance with the schedule in the Procurement Plan. 
 
10. 
Without limitation on other provisions of this Schedule and the provisions 
of the ESAMP, the Borrower shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
appropriate engineering, social and environmental standards and 
practices that would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary 
resettlement of displaced persons have been applied in the design of the proposed 
works and activities of each Sub-Project and such works and activities will meet 
the requirements of the Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan; 
 
(b) 
for each Sub-Project involving the involuntary resettlement of 
PAPs: (i) a LARAP, or an abbreviated LARAP when fewer than 200 PAPs are 
concerned, is prepared in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Framework and in consultation with the PAPs; and (ii) no contract for the 
carrying out of works or activities for the proposed Sub-Project is entered into 
until: (A) the Bank has approved such LARAP or abbreviated LARAP; and (B) 
every PAP is compensated and/or has been provided with a resettlement site and 
moving allowance prior to the taking of the land and related assets, in each case in 
accordance with the provisions of such LARAP or abbreviated LARAP, and such 
compensation and/or provision of resettlement site and moving allowance has 
been substantially completed to the satisfaction of the Bank; 
 
(c) 
the environmental impact assessment requirements for each Sub-
Project are completed under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Bank and the Environmental Assessment Documents have been approved 
by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of the Environmental and Social 
Assessment Management Plan prior to the signing of the contract for the carrying 
- 12 -
out of works or activities for such Sub-Project, including the provisions relating to 
cultural property; and 
 
(d) 
screening is conducted to identify potential isolated vulnerable 
peoples in the area to be covered by each proposed Sub-Project and in the event 
that any such isolated vulnerable peoples are identified in the area to be covered 
by any such proposed Sub-Project, such Sub-Project shall not be included in the 
Project and shall not qualify as a Sub-Project.  
 
11. 
The Borrower shall carry out the traffic safety program under Part 3(a) of 
the Project and the training activities under Part 3(b) of the Project, in accordance 
with terms of reference and following a time-bound implementation plan 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
12. 
In carrying out Part 3(a)(i) of the Project, the Borrower, through the 
Directorate General of Land Transport, shall, not later than November 30, 2008, 
submit to the Bank for review and comments, a report on carrying out such 
activities and thereafter finalize the report taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon.  In carrying out Part 3(a)(ii) of the Project, the Borrower, 
through the Directorate of Traffic Police shall, not later than November 30, 2008, 
submit to the Bank for review and comments, a report on carrying out such 
activities and thereafter finalize the report taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon. 
 
13. 
In carrying out Part 3(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project staff at the provincial level shall be trained annually in the application of 
the Project Management Manual, including the Bank’s financial management and 
procurement procedures, with the first annual training carried out by  
December 31, 2006. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
one month after the end of the period covered by such report;   
 
- 13 -
(b) 
Without limiting the generality of sub-paragraph (a) above, each 
Project Report shall include: (i) progress on pre-contract preparation, including 
land acquisition and resettlement and environmental assessment; (ii) physical 
progress in Project implementation; (iii) procurement under the Project and 
expenditures by contract; (iv) financial monitoring reporting including projected 
sources and application of funds for the six month period following the reporting 
period in such Project Report; and (v) the extent and quality of compliance with 
the implementation procedures set out in the Project Management Manual, 
including the Anti-Corruption Action Plan;  
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MPW, shall prepare, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for review and 
comment, on or about November 30, 2008, a mid-term review report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph 1, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.  The 
Borrower through MPW shall make such mid-term review report publicly 
available on MPW’s official website (www.pu.go.id, or any successor website 
thereto) promptly after the completion of such mid-term review and the 
acceptance by the Bank of such mid-term review report; and 
 
(d) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
 
(i) 
percentage reduction in travel times on Sub-Project roads; 
 
(ii) 
annual average daily traffic (AADT) on Sub-Project roads 
relative to forecast flows as reported in the Project 
Implementation Plan; 
 
(iii) 
Performance-Based Contract Pilot Program implemented as 
designed; 
 
(iv) 
road safety studies and pilot program carried out as 
designed; 
 
(v) 
Anti-Corruption Action Plan implemented and construction 
supervision carried out as designed (percentage of new 
contracts fully compliant with no breaches);  
- 14 -
(vi) 
number of technical audits carried out; and  
 
(vii) 
number of kilometers of betterment, capacity expansion, 
and new roads constructed, and number of meters of 
bridges completed. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out at regular intervals during Project 
implementation, risk-based internal audits of financial controls and technical 
audits of selected road sections to determine if the quality of construction meets 
the specifications and technical standards included in the bidding documents and 
contracts.  Such audits shall be carried out in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and the schedule set forth in the Project Management 
Manual.  Copies of the reports from such audits shall be made available to the 
Bank promptly upon their completion.  Should either the Borrower or the Bank 
determine that any such audit identifies any significant lapse in internal controls, 
quality of outputs realized or any significant delay in execution of the works 
contracts under the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Bank for 
its review and comments a time-bound action plan for remedy of the identified 
problems; and shall, promptly after the Bank has discussed the results of its 
review with the Borrower, take all necessary actions to carry out the time-bound 
action plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments on such plan. 
 
3. 
The Borrower through MPW shall make publicly available promptly after 
receipt of all final financial audit reports (including qualified audit reports) and all 
technical audit reports for the Project prepared in accordance with this Agreement 
and all formal responses of the Borrower in relation to such reports.  The 
Borrower shall ensure that MPW shall place the information provided for in this 
paragraph on the MPW official website (www.pu.go.id, or any successor website 
thereto) within one month of the report being accepted as final by the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section II, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, not 
later than one month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited 
- 15 -
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of 
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General. 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of 
the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section III to 
describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of 
particular contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 16 -
Procurement Method 
 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the modifications set out in 
Part F of this Section III. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and 
Cost-based Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
E. 
Procurement Procedures. 
 
Without limitation on the other provisions of this Schedule 2, of the Procurement 
Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines (as such term is are defined in this 
Schedule 2), and of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, the following provisions 
shall apply in respect of goods, works and consultants’ services to be procured 
under the Project: 
 
1. 
MPW shall make publicly available on the official website of MPW 
(www.pu.go.id, or any successor website thereto) each WP and the Procurement 
Plan, including all updates thereto, promptly after their finalization. 
 
2. 
MPW shall publish on its website (www.pu.go.id, or any successor 
website thereto) a quarterly newsletter concerning the Project, including a list of 
- 17 -
contracts 
awarded, 
implementation 
progress, 
project-related 
workshops, 
complaint handling mechanisms and the number, typology and status of any 
complaints received.  MPW shall send the quarterly newsletter to the civil society 
(e.g. NGO) forum in each project province in hardcopy or through an electronic 
mailing list. 
 
3. 
MPW shall make publicly available on its website (www.pu.go.id, or any 
successor website thereto) promptly after completion: (a) the mid-term review 
report described in paragraph 1(c) of Section II.A of this Schedule 2; and (b) all 
final audit reports described in paragraph 3 of Section II.B of this Schedule 2. 
 
4. 
MPW shall make publicly available the Indonesian version of the Anti-
Corruption Action Plan, as approved by the Bank on the official website of MPW 
(www.pu.go.id, or any successor website thereto). 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, use  
e-procurement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank for all works and consultant 
services contracts under the Project.    
 
6. 
The Borrower shall make available to any member of the public promptly 
upon request, all bidding documents and requests for proposals issued in 
accordance with this Section III, subject to payment of a reasonable fee to cover 
the cost of printing and delivery.  The Borrower shall continue to make available 
each such bidding document and request for proposal until one year after 
completion of the contract entered into for the goods, works or services in 
question. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall make available to any member of the public promptly 
upon request, all shortlists of consultants under the Project. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall invite in a timely manner representatives of civil 
society groups to attend the public bid openings and be included as observers of 
the procurement/selection process.  The Borrower shall implement the procedures 
for selection of civil society observers and the procedures for their attendance as 
set out in the Project Management Manual in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
9. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a)  for the procurement of the DSC, CTC 
and Procurement Advisor consultants’ services, all technical and financial 
proposals shall be submitted directly to the Procurement Agent; and (b) for the 
procurement of all other consultant’s services: (i) a Public Notary shall be invited 
to officially witness the opening of technical and financial proposals, and to 
- 18 -
certify the minutes of opening of such technical and financial proposals; and (ii) 
such Public Notary shall be required to keep in a safe place one sealed copy of the 
technical and financial proposal submitted by each consultant.  
 
10. 
With respect to all Sub-Projects under WP-1, until the Procurement 
Advisor has been engaged in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section I.B of this 
Schedule 2, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that a  Public Notary attends all bid 
opening sessions, certify the records of the bid opening sessions, receive a copy of 
such records and receive and hold in escrow a sealed copy of each bid submitted; 
and (b) not enter into any contract for, the procurement of works unless: (i) the 
Public Notary has provided to the Procurement Advisor a sealed copy of the bids 
submitted and the record of bid opening sessions; and (ii) the Procurement 
Advisor has reviewed the Borrower’s bid evaluation reports in respect of bids 
submitted for such contract for Sub-Projects under WP-1 and furnished copies of 
such review to the Borrower and the Bank.   
 
11. 
With respect to all Sub-Projects under WP-2 and WP-3: (a) the 
Procurement Advisor shall undertake the steps set out for the Public Notary in 
paragraph 10(a) above; (b) the Borrower shall not issue any bidding documents 
for the procurement of goods or works unless the Procurement Advisor has 
provided his review and approval of such bidding documents as required under its 
contractual terms of reference; and (c) the Borrower shall not enter into any 
contract for the procurement of goods or works unless the Procurement Advisor 
has provided his approval of the relevant bid evaluation report as required under 
his contractual terms of reference. 
 
12. 
The Borrower shall, within two weeks of contract award, send to each 
bidder/consultant, and publish in UNDB online, dgMarket and on the MPW 
website (www.pu.go.id, or any successor website thereto) contract award 
information identifying the bid and lot numbers and the following information:  
(a) the name of each bidder/consultant who submitted a bid/proposal; (b) the 
bid/proposal prices read out at the bid opening; (c) the name and evaluated prices 
of each bid/proposal that was evaluated; (d) the name of bidders/consultants 
whose bids/proposals were rejected and the reason for their rejection; and (e) the 
name of the winning bidders/consultants and the price offered, as well as the 
duration and summary scope of the contract awarded. 
 
13. 
The Borrower shall make available, promptly upon request by a member 
of the public, a list of all contracts for goods, works and consultants’ services 
awarded in the three months preceding the date of such request, including, with 
respect to each such contract, the name of the contractor/supplier/consultant, the 
- 19 -
contract amount, the number of bidders/makers of proposals in respect thereof, 
the procurement method followed, and the purpose of such contract. 
 
14. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain under an implementation 
schedule satisfactory to the Bank a complaints handling system satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
15. 
Each member of the procurement committee for a Sub-Project and each 
Echelon I–IV official of MPW (“Official”), who is involved in the procurement 
process for a Sub-Project, shall disclose to the head of the procurement committee 
for that Sub-Project and to the Procurement Advisor, if they or any of their 
immediate family members are related or otherwise connected to any of the 
members of the boards of directors or commissioners of the bidders and/or 
consultants participating in any of the procurement packages for any Sub-Project 
under the Project (“Interested Member”). Any Interested Member shall recuse 
himself or herself from further participation in the evaluation process for that Sub-
Project; and any Interested Member who is an Official shall recuse himself or 
herself from any decisions relating to the evaluation process or contract award  for 
that Sub-Project. 
 
16. 
In the case of consultants’ services, the Borrower shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the technical evaluation report shall be completed within four 
weeks of proposal submission, and the proposal for the award of 
contract made available, along with the draft contract, within four 
weeks after completion of the technical evaluation report or 
following the Bank’s no-objection, whichever occurs later;  
 
(b) 
the qualifications and experience of members of the procurement 
committee for the selection of consultants shall be readily available 
on file to serve as evidence of their suitability to serve as members 
of the committee;  
 
(c) 
at least one Public Notary shall be invited to officially witness the 
opening of technical and financial proposals, and certify the 
minutes of opening of technical/financial proposals; and 
 
(d) 
the Public Notary shall be required to keep in a safe place one copy 
of the technical proposals submitted by each consultant (once they 
are open), the whole copy of the financial proposals (before they 
- 20 -
are open), and one copy of the financial proposals submitted by 
each consultant (once they are open). 
 
17. 
Without limiting the generality of paragraph 16 above, the Borrower shall 
ensure that no requests for proposal for DSC, CTC or Procurement Advisor 
consultants’ services shall be issued until the Procurement Agent has: (i) been 
engaged by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Procurement 
Plan and Part C of this Section III; and (ii) taken up its duties in accordance with 
the terms of its contract with the Borrower.   
 
F. 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, the procedures to be followed 
for national competitive bidding shall, to the extent applicable, be those set forth 
in Presidential Decree No.80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the 
clarifications and modifications described in the following paragraphs required 
for compliance with the provisions of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not 
be a condition for participation in the bidding process.  
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders: 
(i) shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration 
process; and (ii) shall not be denied registration for reasons 
unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully perform 
the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
 
3. 
Pre-qualification.
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods. 
Normally, post-qualification shall be used.  When pre-qualification shall be 
required: 
 
(a) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-
qualification; and  
 
(b) 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least 
one widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of 30 
days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification 
applications. 
 
- 21 -
4. 
Joint Ventures. A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder 
shall not be required to form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of the supply 
of goods as a condition of award of the contract. 
 
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders; and 
 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations 
and local regulations which restrict national competitive bidding 
procedures to a class of contractors or a class of suppliers shall not 
be applicable to procurement procedures under the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 
days for the preparation and submission of bids and allowing 
potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 24 hours 
prior the deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit 
responsible for procurement shall be allowed to participate 
regardless of the estimated value of the contract; and 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared the lowest 
evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity for 
registering. 
 
7. 
Bid Security. Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a 
bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
- 22 -
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and if bids are invited in two envelopes, both 
envelopes (technical and price) shall be opened at the same time; 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded 
to the lowest evaluated bidder; 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the 
basis of minor, non-substantial deviations; and 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with the owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
Bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence; and 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three, re-bidding 
shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section IV and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
- 23 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Works 
 
174,000,000 
 
70% 
(2)  Goods 
 
1,325,000 
 
100% 
(3)  Consultants’ services 
and training 
 
19,950,000 
100% 
(4) Incremental operating 
costs 
 
720,000 
80% 
(5) Refund of the Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
2,050,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(a) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
520,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
(7)  Unallocated 
 
9,435,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
208,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section IV no withdrawal 
shall be made:   
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 15, 2006, for 
Eligible Expenditures for the Procurement Agent and for training under  
Category 3; or 
 
- 24 -
(b) 
under Category 1 for any works contract until the Borrower has 
engaged the Procurement Advisor satisfactory to the Bank under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
- 25 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2 
 
WP-1 Sub-Projects 
 
No. 
Sub-Project Name  
Km 
Type 
Province 
 
1. 
Karawang Bypass  
  11.47 
New Road 
West Java 
 
2. 
Semarang NRR 
      2.23 
Capacity 
Expansion 
 
Central Java 
3. 
Demak Bypass           
      7.00 
Capacity 
Expansion 
 
Central Java 
4. 
Ngawi Ring Road  
    10.75 
New Road 
 
East Java 
5. 
Karangampel - Cirebon  
    28.51 
Betterment 
 
West Java 
6. 
Cianjur Ring Road  
      7.50 
New Road 
West Java 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars�) 
 
November 15, 2011 
4,615,000 
May 15, 2012 
4,735,000 
November 15, 2012 
4,865,000 
May 15, 2013 
4,995,000 
November 15, 2013 
5,125,000 
May 15, 2014 
5,265,000 
November 15, 2014 
5,405,000 
May 15, 2015 
5,545,000 
November 15, 2015 
5,695,000 
May 15, 2016 
5,845,000 
November 15, 2016 
6,005,000 
May 15, 2017 
6,165,000 
November 15, 2017  
6,325,000 
May 15, 2018 
6,495,000 
November 15, 2018 
6,670,000 
May 15, 2019 
6,845,000 
November 15, 2019 
7,030,000 
May 15, 2020 
7,215,000 
November 15, 2020 
7,410,000 
May 15, 2021 
7,605,000 
November 15, 2021 
7,810,000 
May 15, 2022 
8,015,000 
November 15, 2022 
8,230,000 
May 15, 2023 
8,450,000 
November 15, 2023 
8,675,000 
May 15, 2024 
8,905,000 
November 15, 2024 
9,145,000 
May 15, 2025 
9,385,000 
November 15, 2025 
9,635,000 
May 15, 2026 
9,895,000 
APPENDIX 
                                                 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
 
- 27 - 
  
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Action Plan” means the Borrower’s anti-corruption 
action plan adopted on May 22, 2006 pursuant to Letter No. HL.02.01-
SJ/369 from the Secretary General of MPW, which sets forth the measures 
and actions to be taken during implementation of the Project with respect 
to disclosure, civil society oversight, collusion mitigation, mitigation of 
forgery and fraud, complaints handling and sanctions and remedies. 
 
2. 
“Bapedalda” means the provincial environmental agency of each Project 
Province or any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Bappenas” means the Borrower’s National Development Planning 
Agency, or any successor thereto. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Consultant 
Guidelines” 
means 
the 
“Guidelines: 
Selection 
and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the 
Bank in May 2004. 
 
6. 
“CTC” means the core team consultants, including the Financial 
Management Consultant, to be engaged under the Project in accordance 
with the Procurement Plan and the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, to provide support to DOP and DGH under Part 2 of 
the Project. 
 
7. 
“DGH” means the Borrower’s Directorate General of Highways of MPW, 
or any successor agency thereto. 
 
8. 
“Directorate General of Land Transport” means the Borrower’s 
Directorate General of Land Transport in the MOT, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
9. 
“Directorate of Traffic Police” means the Borrower’s Directorate of 
Traffic Police within the Indonesian National Police (POLRI), or any 
successor thereto.  
 
 
- 28 - 
 10. 
“DOP” means the Directorate of Planning of DGH, or any successor 
agency thereto. 
 
11. 
“DSC” means the firms of design and supervision consultants to be 
engaged under the Project in accordance with the Procurement Plan and 
the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to assist 
DOP and DGH in the design and supervision for Sub-Projects. 
 
12. 
“Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan” and “ESAMP” 
mean the plan adopted on May 22, 2006, pursuant to Letter No. HL.02.01-
SJ/369 from the Secretary General of MPW, setting forth the measures to 
be taken during the implementation of the Project to eliminate or offset 
adverse environmental and social impacts of said implementation or to 
reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, and setting forth the actions 
needed to implement such measures including the required Environmental 
Assessment Documents and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Framework and related LARAPs, as such plan may be amended from time 
to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
13. 
“Environmental Assessment Documents” means any Analisa Mengenai 
Dampak Lingkungan (AMDAL) (Environmental Impact Assessment), 
Upaya Pengelolaan Lingkungan  (UKL) (Environmental Management 
Effort), 
Upaya 
Pemantauan 
Lingkungan 
(UPL) 
(Environmental 
Monitoring Effort), or Standard Operational Procedure required by the 
ESAMP. 
 
14. 
“Financial Management Experts” means the financial management experts 
under the CTC to assist DOP and DGH in financial management of the 
Project, including the preparation of consolidated financial reports. 
 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
16. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures incurred by 
the DOP, the Inspectorate General of MPW and the PMU for the purposes 
of implementing the Project, including provision for staff travel, per diem 
while out of station communications, consumables, web page 
establishment and maintenance, advertisement of bidding, printing and 
publication of Project information, rental of meeting facilities but 
excluding staff salaries, which expenditures would not have been incurred 
absent the Project.  
 
- 29 - 
  
17. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework” means the policy 
framework, adopted on May 22, 2006, pursuant to Letter No. HL.02.01-
SJ/369 from the Secretary General of MPW, for the provision of 
compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to PAPs, as such 
framework may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
18. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” or “LARAP” means a 
land acquisition and resettlement action plan under one or more Sub-
Projects for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
assistance to PAPs, prepared and implemented pursuant to the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, as such plan may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
19. 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
20. 
“MOT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
21. 
“MPW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
22. 
“MPW Criteria” means the agreed criteria for the Project Managers 
provided by MPW to the Bank by letter dated May 23, 2006. 
 
23. 
“PAP” or “Project Affected Person” means a person who, on account of 
the execution of Part 1 of the Project, has experienced or would 
experience direct economic and social impacts caused by the involuntary 
taking of land, resulting in: (a) relocation or loss of shelter; (b) loss of 
assets or access to assets; or (c) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location, and 
“Project Affected Persons” and “PAPs” means, collectively, all such 
persons. 
 
24. 
“Performance-Based Contract Pilot Program” means the program referred 
to in Part 1(e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Advisor” means the procurement advisor to be engaged 
under the Project in accordance with the Procurement Plan and the 
provisions of Section I.B.3 and Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
 
- 30 - 
 
Agreement, to assist the Borrower in the procurement of works in 
accordance with the Procurement Plan for all Sub-Projects.  
 
26. 
“Procurement Agent” means the procurement agent to be engaged under 
the Project in accordance with the Procurement Plan and the provisions of 
Section I.B.2 and Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to assist the 
Borrower in the selection of the DSC, the CTC and the Procurement 
Advisor in accordance with the Procurement Plan. 
 
27. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
28. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the 
Project, adopted on May 22, 2006, pursuant to Letter No. HL.02.01-
SJ/369 from the Secretary General of MPW, and referred to in paragraph 
1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
29. 
“Procurement Procedures” means the procedures set forth in Section III.E 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
30. 
“Project Management Manual” means the manual adopted by the 
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of  
Section I. B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to assist the staff assigned to 
the Project in the implementation of the Project, as such Project 
Management Manual may be amended from time to time in agreement 
with the Bank. 
 
31. 
“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” mean the project management unit 
established by DOP responsible for the carrying out Project 
implementation activities in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Management Manual. 
 
32. 
“Project Manager” means a project manager (Kepala Satuan Kerja) 
appointed by MPW in accordance with the MPW Criteria located in a 
local office of DGH in an area in which one or more Sub-Project is 
implemented. 
 
33. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 
2.07(a) of the General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower 
 
- 31 - 
 
pursuant to the letter agreements signed: (a) on behalf of the Bank on  
June 11, 2004 and on behalf of the Borrower on June 29, 2004 (P4080); 
and (b) on behalf of the Bank on March 30, 2005 and on behalf of the 
Borrower on April 5, 2005 (P4081). 
 
34. 
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s provinces of Banten, West 
Java, Central Java, East Java, Jambi, South Sumatra and Lampung and any 
province or provinces that may be established in the future within the 
geographical boundaries of the provinces referred above, and “Project 
Province” means any one of them. 
 
35. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee to be established by 
the Borrower through Bappenas, within one month of the Effective Date 
as set out in paragraph 1 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
36. 
“Public Notary” means a public notary, sworn or otherwise registered in 
accordance with the relevant laws of the Borrower, acting under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist MPW in implementing the 
Procurement Procedures as set out in paragraphs 9 and 10 of Section III.E 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
37. 
“Road Safety Steering Committee” means the committee to be established 
by the Borrower within one month of the Effective Date as set out in 
paragraph 3 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
38. 
“Sub-Project” means each sub-project for road or bridge construction, 
betterment or expansion under Part 1 of the Project that is included in a 
WP and meets the requirements set forth in paragraph 9 of Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
39. 
“WP” means each work program satisfactory to the Bank setting out Sub-
Projects for financing under Part 1 of the Project, as the same may be 
revised with the prior agreement of the Bank; “WP-1” means, except as 
may be otherwise agreed by the Bank, the six Sub-Projects for fiscal year 
2007 set out in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; “WP-2” means 
the second WP for fiscal year 2008 to be submitted to the Bank on or 
before November 30, 2007 for its approval; and “WP-3” means the third 
WP for fiscal year 2009 to be submitted to the Bank on or before 
November 30, 2008 for its approval.  
 
 
- 32 - 
 
 
