CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4875 RO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
Complementing EU Support for Agricultural Restructuring Project 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 28, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4875 RO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 28, 2007, between ROMANIA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty seven million seven hundred 
thousand Euro (EUR 47,700,000) (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 (sixty) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due, and such non payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest paid by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
- 2 -
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part I of the Project through ANCPI, Part II of 
the Project through the MADR, and Part III of the Project through ANCPI and 
MADR, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
ANCPI and MADR have established PMUs in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, including the adoption of the Project Operational Manual 
(POM), the provision of sufficient and suitable human resources, and the 
availability of appropriate financial resources. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through ANCPI and MADR, has adopted the EMP 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 
 
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
 
11239
4021 312 6792  
 
 
- 3 -
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By: /s/ Varujan Vosganian 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By:  /s/ Benoit P. Blarel 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to facilitate market-based 
farm restructuring through enhancing the ability of farmers, farm family members, and 
farm workers to manage their assets and income. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I: Land Administration 
 
1.  
Land Delimitation and Title Registration
Completion of property rights determination and registration of land assets in 
rural areas through: (a) parcel delimitation and surveys; (b) legal services for title 
registration in the offices of ANCPI; (c) digital conversion of legal and cadastral 
documents and maps; and (d) an upgrade and complete roll-out of the existing IT system 
for registration and cadastre. 
 
2. 
Institutional Strengthening
(a)  
Designing and implementation of improvements in the legal and 
institutional framework of ANCPI in order to improve service delivery for ANCPI as 
well as the private sector. 
 
(b)  
Streamlining the procedure and training for OCPIs in order to strengthen 
OCPIs’ institutional capacity. 
 
(c)  
Upgrading some OCPIs offices with small civil works, IT and other 
equipment and furniture. 
 
(d)   
Preparation and implementation of the public awareness campaign that 
will precede and accompany the field work. 
 
Part II:  Socio-Economic Guidance Services to the Agricultural Population   
 
1. 
Capacity Building for Providers of Socio-Economic Guidance Services
Facilitating the ability of the agricultural population to sustainably manage its 
income and assets under consideration of national and EU-supported programs, 
encompassing: (a) the identification and development of independent regional socio-
economic guidance service providers (SEGPs); (b) an assessment of the current supply 
and demand for advisory services to the agricultural population in the Project regions; (c) 
the elaboration and regular update of a Handbook on Socio-Economic Advice which is to 
- 5 -
serve as a work and case reference guide for SEGP agents; and (d) comprehensive 
training to both the SEGPs contracted for future provision of socio-economic guidance 
and the interested third party providers of advice and guidance to the agricultural sector. 
 
2. 
Providing Socio-Economic Guidance Services to the Agricultural Population
Provision of goods and services for: (a) the carrying out of outreach and 
community information activities and elaboration of guidance materials to their 
beneficiaries; and (b) the establishment of informational networks between SEGPs and 
other providers of advisory services to the agricultural sector.  
 
Part III:  Policy, Strategy and Management 
 
1.  
Project Management
Support to ANCPI and MADR in connection with Project coordination and 
administration, 
implementation, 
procurement, 
financial 
management, 
reporting, 
monitoring and evaluation.   
 
2.   
Technical Assistance
Provision of consulting services related to the development of an Information 
System for Agricultural and Forestry (SIAS).  
 
3. 
Strategy, Policy, Legal, and Institutional Studies
Preparation of studies in areas such as, but not limited to: (a) analysis and review 
of land consolidation, and rural physical planning; (b) proposed approaches to facilitating 
the functioning of rural land markets; (c) strategic options available in moving from the 
Single Area Payment Scheme (SAPS) to the EU mainstream Single Payment Scheme 
(SPS) in 2012, and; (d) development of the legal framework for approved strategies and 
policies.  
 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Steering Committee (PSC), 
which shall provide overall policy and operational guidance for the Project to ensure that 
the Project activities conform to national policies and strategies. The PSC shall consist of 
representatives of MADR, MIRA, ANCPI and MEF and will be chaired, alternatively by 
a representative of ANCPI and MADR.  
 
2.      
The Borrower shall carry out Part I of the Project through ANCPI, and Part II of 
the Project through MADR. The Borrower shall carry out Part III of the Project through 
ANCPI and MADR, in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.  The 
Borrower shall provide ANCPI, through MIRA and MADR, with the appropriate 
budgetary allocations through the two implementing authorities. The ANCPI PMU and 
the MADR PMU shall have overall responsibility for day-to-day implementation and 
management of Part I of the Project and Part II of the Project respectively, and jointly, of 
Part III of the Project.  To that end, the Borrower, through ANCPI and MADR, shall 
maintain the ANCPI PMU and the MADR PMU throughout the implementation of the 
Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and with sufficient and suitable human, 
financial and technical resources.  
 
3. 
 The Borrower shall ensure that ANCPI and MADR carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the POM and the EMP. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that appropriate budget allocations are made available 
yearly for the Project implementation purposes, throughout the Project life. 
 
5.  
Midterm Review
(a)  
About twenty four (24) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, 
through ANCPI and MADR, shall carry out jointly with the Bank, a midterm review of 
the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm 
Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
 
(i) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and 
 
(ii)  
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through ANCPI and MADR shall prepare, and at least (4) 
weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the Bank, a separate report describing the 
- 7 -
status of the implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of 
the Project implementation generally. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through ANCPI and MADR, shall, not later than four (4) 
weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare and submit to the Bank an action program, 
acceptable to the Bank, for further implementation of the Project having regard to the 
findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action program. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower, through ANCPI and MADR, shall monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through ANCPI and MADR, shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through ANCPI and MADR, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through ANCPI and MADR, shall have its Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the 
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
- 8 -
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Limited International Bidding 
 
(b)  
National Competitive Bidding: works estimated to cost less than EUR 
4,000,000 per contract and goods estimated to cost less than EUR 800,000 per 
contract may be procured under the Borrower’s national laws and regulations 
subject to the extent they were acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c)  
Shopping 
 
(d)   
Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
- 9 -
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b)  
Selection under a Fixed-Budget 
 
(c)  
Least Cost Selection 
 
(d)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e)  
Single-source Selection 
 
(f)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), after the Eligible Expenditures 
have been pre-financed by the Borrower, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to 
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category.    
- 10 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Goods, Works, 
Consultants’ Services 
(including Audits), and 
Training under Part I 
and Part III of the 
Project 
 
38,244,000 
 
100 % 
(2) Goods, Works, 
Consultants’ Services 
(including Audits), 
Incremental Operating 
Costs and Training 
under Part II and Part 
III of the Project  
 
9,456,000 
 
100 % 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
47,700,000
3.  
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)  
the “Percentage of Expenditures to be Financed” means the maximum 
amount up to which the Eligible Expenditures may be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; 
 
(b)  
the term “Training” means expenditures incurred on the account of the 
training activities under the Project and includes trainees' fees, transportation and 
accommodation costs for trainees and trainers, per diem allowances for trainees and 
trainers and cost for translation, training materials and related supplies, rental of facilities 
and equipment; and 
 
(c)  
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating 
costs incurred by MADR on account of Project implementation, comprising: staff and 
consultants’ costs; communication costs; procurement related advertising costs; 
translation costs; local transportation; fuel; operating, maintenance and insurance costs 
for vehicles; rent of the office accommodation and maintenance (including utilities); 
refurbishment and rehabilitation of offices including equipment; office supplies, 
maintenance and insurance of the office equipment; Project related travel and per diem 
allowances including accommodation and transportation; and banking charges. 
 
- 11 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
 
(a)  
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; and 
 
(b)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Euro)1
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 
beginning March 15, 2013
2,385,000 
 through September 15, 2022
1 The figures in this column represent the amount in EURO to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
- 13 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“ANCPI” means the National Agency for Cadastre and Land Registration of the 
Borrower, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Governmental Decision 
No.1210/2004 as amended as of the date of this Agreement, or any successor 
thereto. 
2. 
“ANCPI PMU” means the Project Management Unit within ANCPI. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
5. 
“EU” means European Union. 
 
6. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan describing the regulatory 
framework and building codes to protect the environment during Project-related 
building construction and renovations and to develop measures to mitigate 
potential negative impacts, and to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“MIRA” means Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reform of the Borrower, 
or any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“MADR” means the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“MADR PMU” means the Project Management Unit within MADR of the 
Borrower, established and operating under the Bank financed MAKIS Project 
(Loan Agreement No. 4785 RO dated January 28, 2005). 
 
11. 
“MAKIS Project” means Modernizing Agricultural Knowledge and Information 
System Project financed through the Bank’s Loan (Loan Agreement No. 4785 
RO dated January 28, 2005).  
 
12. 
“MEF” means the Ministry of Economy and Finances of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto. 
- 14 -
13. 
“OCPIs” means the County Offices for Cadastre and Land Registration under the 
subordination of the Borrower’s ANCPI. 
14. 
“PMUs” means ANCPI PMU and MADR PMU. 
 
15. 
“POM” means the Project Operation Manual describing the roles and 
responsibilities and the coordination mechanisms, including the Procurement 
Plan and Terms of Reference for the first year, monitoring and evaluation 
arrangements, the detailed cost tables, the EMP, the forms for budgeting and 
financial reporting, and to be adopted by the Borrower through ANCPI and 
MADR pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 14, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee to be established by the Borrower, 
and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Section  3.01 shall read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end 
fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”).” 
2. 
A new paragraph (d) is included in Section 3.02 Interest which shall read 
as follows: 
“(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the Default 
Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan 
Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a 
result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default 
Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be 
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.” 
- 15 -
3.  
Appendix “Definitions” is amended as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 19 “Commitment Charge”
is deleted, and subsequent 
paragraphs are re-numbered accordingly. 
(b) 
New paragraphs 27, 28, 29 and 30 are added to the Appendix:
“27. 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount 
remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall 
commence on the 31st day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, 
and the final such Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is 
fully paid.” 
28. 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%).” 
29. 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
3.02 first becomes overdue. 
30. 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable 
Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
(c) 
Paragraph 43 “Fixed Spread” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
- 16 -
“43. 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan 
Currency in effect at 12:0 1 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the 
Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided 
further that notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest 
is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
(d) 
Paragraph 56 “LIBOR Reset Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read 
as follows: 
“56. 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means: (a) for any Loan Currency other than Euro, 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period 
(or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in 
which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two London Banking Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency 
other than Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the first 
or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day 
immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on 
the first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved 
Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date); (b) 
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest 
Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period for a Variable Spread Loan, the day 
two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month 
in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days 
- 17 -
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to Euro falls on a day other 
than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in 
which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion 
Date; provided that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such 
month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); and (c)  notwithstanding sub-paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, for a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the 
Bank determines that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR Reset Date is 
on a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be 
such other date, as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”
(e) 
Paragraph 66 “Loan Payment” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“66. 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not 
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, 
interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction 
fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
(f) 
Paragraph 71 “Payment Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“71. 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.” 
