CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4863-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Western Provinces Rural Water Supply, Sanitation 
and Hygiene Promotion Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 29, 2007 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 29, 2007, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-five million dollars 
($25,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1%) of 
the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause each Project Implementing Entity and their 
Respective Project Participants to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following namely, 
 
(a) 
the Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of 
the Loan Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
3
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Yang Shaolin 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Shaanxi Province and Sichuan Province 
in increasing access of poor communities to sustainable and equitable water supply, 
sanitation and hygiene promotion services using an integrated and a participatory 
approach. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts to be carried out in the territory of the 
Respective Project Participants, subject to modifications thereof as the Borrower and the 
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part A. Safe Drinking Water Supply
Carrying out a program to improve access to safe drinking water, including 
investment subprojects for the construction of multi-village and single-village piped 
water supply systems, rainwater collection systems, and wells with hand or electric 
pumps. 
 
Part B. Environmental Sanitation
Carrying out a program to improve access to sanitation services, including 
investment subprojects for the construction of household, public, and school latrines, 
associated handwashing facilities and garbage drop-off sites. 
 
Part C. Hygiene Promotion
Carrying out a program to promote good hygiene behavior and practices, 
including investment subprojects promoting construction of hygienic latrines and 
improvement in stool disposal and handwashing with soap, all through: (1) existing 
government programs channels; (2) mass and multi-media interventions; and (3) 
establishment of promotion teams consisting of hygiene experts and relevant government 
personnel. 
 
Part D. Institutional strengthening
Carrying out a program to build the capacity of relevant provincial, county and 
local government agencies and of community organizations to implement and manage the 
Project, including development of a management information system and monitoring and 
evaluation tools. 
5
Part E. Resettlement 
Carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection 
with the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and the 
following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement, shall be recovered over a period 
of seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to 
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
A commitment fee shall be charged on the principal amount of the Loan 
so made available and not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause each Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the 
basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date. 
 
7
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank as part of the 
Project Report by not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General. 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods, works and non-consulting services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services. 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the 
8
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region 
of the Borrower). 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting 
Services.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consulting services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method:
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.  In addition, the procedures to be followed for 
National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except 
for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent each and for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or 
bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders 
between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline 
for submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents 
shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating 
the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the 
bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no 
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity, 
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and 
the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such security.    
 
9
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The time 
for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of 
such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to 
be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer 
the lowest evaluated cost.  The winning bidder shall not be required, 
as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not 
stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as 
originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide 
that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, 
to inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of 
the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they can 
establish that they: (i) are legally and financially autonomous; (ii) 
operate under commercial law; and (iii) are not a dependent agency of 
the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3). 
 
(b) 
Shopping. 
 
10
(c) 
Community Participation procedures described in paragraph 12(b) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
(d)  
Direct Contracting. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method:
(a) 
Quality-based Selection. 
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications. 
(c) 
Single-source Selection. 
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
(e) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:   
 
(a) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000  
or more;  
 
(b) 
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 
or more;  
 
(c) 
the first civil works contract procured by each Project Implementing 
Entity using National Competitive Bidding;  
 
11
(d) 
each contract for non-consulting services procured using Direct 
Contracting; 
 
(e) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and  
 
(f) 
all contracts procured using Single-Source selection.   
 
In addition, the following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more: (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval 
shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis: (i) the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval; (ii) the 
contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been given; and (iii) 
the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to 
the contract.   
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category (inclusive of Taxes): 
 
12
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) With respect to Shaanxi 
Province:  
 
(a) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
under Part A of the 
Project 
7,467,500 
36% 
(b) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
under Part B of the 
Project (excluding 
Household Subsidies) 
381,500 
35% 
(c) Household Subsidies 
under Part B of the 
Project 
2,758,000 
50% of 
Household Subsidies paid  
(d) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, 
consultants’ services, 
workshops and training 
under Part C of the 
Project 
937,500 
50% 
(e) Goods and 
consultants’ services 
under Part D of the 
Project 
577,000 
50% 
(f) Workshops and 
training under Part D of 
the Project 
 
378,500 
50% 
(2) With respect to Sichuan 
Province:  
 
(a) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
under Part A of the 
Project 
7,083,000 
35% 
13
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(b) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
under Part B of the 
Project (excluding 
Household Subsidies) 
 
343,500 
35% 
(c) Household Subsidies 
under Part B of the 
Project 
 
3,243,500 
50% of 
Household Subsidies paid  
(d) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, 
consultants’ services, 
workshops and training 
under Part C of the 
Project 
 
959,500 
50% 
(e) Goods and 
consultants’ services 
under Part D of the 
Project 
 
437,500 
50% 
(f) Workshops and 
training under Part D of 
the Project 
 
433,000 
50% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
25,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2012. 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Due
Principal Amount of Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars)
March 15, 2013 
September 15, 2013 
March 15, 2014 
September 15, 2014 
March 15, 2015 
September 15, 2015 
March 15, 2016 
September 15, 2016 
March 15, 2017 
September 15, 2017 
March 15, 2018 
September 15, 2018 
March 15, 2019 
September 15, 2019 
March 15, 2020 
September 15, 2020 
March 15, 2021 
September 15, 2021 
March 15, 2022 
September 15, 2022 
March 15, 2023 
September 15, 2023 
March 15, 2024 
September 15, 2024
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,080,000 
15
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Work Plan” means the annual work plan for the implementation of the 
Project in each calendar year, prepared by each Project Implementing Entity 
pursuant to paragraph 13 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Co-financier” means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
acting through its Department for International Development. 
 
4. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of thirteen million five hundred forty-two 
thousand and four hundred and twenty-nine British Pounds Sterling 
(£13,542,429) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in the financing of the 
Project. 
5. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
People’s Republic of China and the Bank, acting as administrator of the  
Co-financing, providing for the Co-financing. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
7. 
“Dam Safety Review Guidelines” means the Sichuan and Shaanxi Dam Safety 
Review Guidelines dated December 2006 which sets forth the guidelines for 
determining whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of a dam, or in 
the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the same, 
which may endanger its safety. 
 
8. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by:  
 
(a) 
the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move 
to another location; or  
 
(b) 
the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
16
9. 
“Environmental Safeguard Frameworks” means, collectively:  
 
(a) 
the framework for evaluation of environmental impacts adopted by 
Shaanxi Province on January 18, 2007; and  
 
(b) 
the framework for evaluation of environmental impacts adopted by 
Sichuan Province on December 22, 2006, 
 
and referred to in paragraph 4(b) and 5 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, 
which sets forth policies and procedures for the preliminary screening of 
proposed Post-selected Subprojects, and for the preparation of environmental 
assessment 
and 
environment 
management 
plans 
therefor 
during 
the 
implementation of the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to 
time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
10. 
“Environment Management Plans” means, collectively, the Respective First-year 
Subproject EMP of Shaanxi Province, the Respective First-year Subproject EMP 
of Sichuan Province and the environment management plans prepared by 
Shaanxi Province and Sichuan Province for implementation of Subprojects and 
agreed by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(b) and 5 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, as such plans may be revised from time to 
time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and “Environment Management Plan” 
means, individually, any such plan. 
 
11. 
“First-year Subprojects” means, collectively, the subprojects selected by the 
Project Implementing Entities in agreement with the Bank prior to the date of this 
Agreement, comprising Project activities to be carried out by the First-year 
Project Participants during the first year of implementation and to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Loan; and “First-year Subproject” means, individually, 
any such First-year Subproject. 
 
12. 
“First-year Subproject Related Dams” means, collectively:  
 
(a) 
for Shaanxi Province, the dams located at Taoqiupo Reservoir and 
Baocun Reservoir in Yaozhou District; and at Mashaogou Reservoir in 
Yintai District; and  
 
(b) 
for Sichuan Province, the dams located at the following reservoirs in:  
 
(i) 
Lezhi County:  Bajiaomiao, Yanjinghan, Baojianhe and 
Chachahe; and  
 
(ii) 
Pingchang County: Changyan, Xinmin, Lihua and Banqiaogou. 
 
17
13. 
“First-year Subproject Related Dams Owners” means, collectively, the Districts 
of Yaozhou and Yintai in Shaanxi Province and the Counties of Lezhi and 
Pingchang in Sichuan Province. 
 
14. 
“First-year Subproject Related Dams Remediation Plan” means the time-bound 
action plan entitled “Dams Requiring Remedial Work in Shaanxi and Sichuan 
Provinces (20% of Schemes) dated December 2006. 
 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
16. 
“Household Subsidy” means the flat-rate subsidy equivalent to 600 Renminbi per 
latrine or such other amount agreed by the Bank to be paid to a household 
beneficiary under a Household Agreement to be signed between a Project 
Implementing Entity and such beneficiary pursuant to paragraph 12(b) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, which subsidy is payable to the household 
beneficiary upon completion of latrine physical and installation works, 
satisfactory to the Bank; and “Household Subsidies” means, collectively, all such 
subsidy; and means, collectively, all such Household Subsidy. 
 
17. 
“Implementation Framework” means the Implementation Framework dated  
May 16, 2007, which sets out the key principles for the design of and 
implementation arrangements for subprojects to be finance under the Project and 
referred to in Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement and paragraph 11 of  
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
18. 
“Post-selected Subprojects” means, collectively, the subprojects selected by the 
Project Implementing Entities and their Respective Project Participants after the 
date of this Agreement, in accordance with paragraph 12 of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and comprising Project activities to be 
carried out during subsequent years of implementation and approved for 
financing from the proceeds of the Loan; and “Post-selected Subproject” means, 
individually, any of such Post-selected Subproject. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means, individually, the Borrower’s Province of 
Shaanxi and Province of Sichuan and any successor to each of said provinces; 
and “Project Implementing Entities” means, collectively, the Borrower’s 
Province of Shaanxi and Province of Sichuan.  
 
21. 
“Project Operation Manual” means the Project Operation Manual prepared and 
adopted by each of the Project Implementing Entities pursuant to paragraph 11 of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
18
 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 11, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
23. 
“Renminbi” means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
24. 
“Respective First-year Subproject EMP” means in respect of:  
 
(a) 
Shaanxi Province: the environmental management plan duly adopted by 
the Shaanxi Province on January 18, 2007; and  
 
(b) 
Sichuan Province: the environmental management plan duly adopted by 
the Sichuan Province on December 22, 2006, 
 
each document setting out the environmental protection measures in respect of 
the implementation of First-year Subprojects by the Respective First-year 
Subproject Project Participants of Shaanxi Province and of Sichuan Province, as 
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation 
of each such plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
25. 
“Resettlement Policy Frameworks” means, collectively: 
 
(a) 
the resettlement policy framework adopted by Shaanxi Province on 
December 25, 2006; and 
 
(b) 
the resettlement policy framework adopted by Sichuan Province on 
December 25, 2006,  
 
each document setting out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the 
preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required during the 
implementation of the Project.    
 
26. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the Respective First-year 
Subproject RAP of Shaanxi Province and of Sichuan Province and the 
resettlement action plans prepared by Shaanxi Province and Sichuan Province for 
implementation of Post-selected Subprojects and agreed by the Bank pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 3(b)(ii) and 5 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as such plans may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement Action Plan” means, individually, any 
such plan. 
 
19
27. 
“Respective First-year Suproject RAP” means in respect of: 
 
(a) 
Shaanxi Province: the resettlement action plan adopted by Shaanxi 
Province on December 25, 2006; and  
 
(b) 
Sichuan Province: the resettlement action plan adopted by Sichuan 
Province on December 25, 2006, 
 
each document setting, with respect to the implementation of the First-year 
Subprojects by the First-year Subproject Project Participants, procedures and 
obligations governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation measures for Displaced Persons, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
28. 
“Respective Project Participants” means in respect of:  
 
(a) 
Shaanxi Province: (i) its Respective First-year Subproject Project 
Participants; (ii) Lingwei, Baota and Yuyang Districts and Qianyang, 
Fufeng, Changwu, Wugong, Heyang, Chengchen, Zhichang and Suide 
Counties; and (iii) any other district and/or county selected by agreement 
among the Borrower, Shaanxi Province and the Bank; and  
 
(b) 
Sichuan Province: (i) its Respective First-year Subproject Project 
Participants; (ii) Guangan District and Yanting, Cangxi, Anju, Daxian 
and Mingshan Counties; and (iii) any other district and/or county 
selected by agreement among the Borrower, Sichuan Province and the 
Bank.  
 
29. 
“Respective First-year Subproject Project Participants” means in respect of:  
 
(a) 
Shaanxi Province: Yintai and Yaozhou Districts and Binxian and Zhidan 
Counties; and  
 
(b)  
Sichuan Province: Jialing District and Renshou, Pingchang and Lezhi 
Counties.  
 
30. 
“Shaanxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Shaanxi, and any successor thereto. 
 
31. 
“Sichuan” means the Borrower’s Province of Sichuan, and any successor thereto. 
 
32. 
“Subprojects” means, collectively, all First-year Subprojects and Post-selected 
Subprojects, and “Subproject” means, individually, any of such Subprojects.
 
