CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7434-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(La Guajira Water and Sanitation Infrastructure and Service Management Project) 
 
between 
 
DEPARTMENT OF LA GUAJIRA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 16, 2007 
LOAN NUMBER 7434-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 16, 2007, between the DEPARTMENT OF LA GUAJIRA (the 
“Borrower”) 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety million Dollars ($90,000,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  In the event that the Borrower elects not to capitalize the Front-
End Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 days after the 
Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
- 2 -
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PIU in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Fiduciary Contract has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the ability of the Fiduciary Agent to receive 
the proceeds of the Loan or any other proceeds, including implementation of a 
financial management system acceptable to the Bank (other than the 
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted by the PIU. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
The Fiduciary Contract (i) has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and the Fiduciary Agent, and (ii) is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Fiduciary Agent in accordance with its terms. 
 
- 3 -
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been duly adopted by the PIU in accordance with 
the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower. 
 
4.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on September 
15, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Governor of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Departmento de La Guajira 
Calle 1º, #06-04  
Palacio de La Marina 
Riohacha, La Guajira 
Colombia 
 
Facsimile: 
+57-5-727-2226 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
DEPARTMENT OF LA GUAJIRA 
 
By /s/ José Luis González Crespo 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
HONORARY WIOTNESS 
 
By /s/ Francisco Santos Calderón 
Vice President of the Republic of Colombia 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of water supply and sanitation 
services in urban and peri-urban areas of the Borrower’s territory by: (a) supporting utility 
institutional performance through the use of “specialized operators”; and (b) delivering the 
necessary water and sanitation infrastructure. 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program and consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. 
Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Infrastructure 
1. 
Carrying out of investments (each, an “Urban Infrastructure Investment”) in the water 
supply and sanitation infrastructure of the Participating Municipalities consisting of civil 
works, equipment, and services in support of one or more of the following types of 
infrastructure projects: 
(a) 
rehabilitation, construction, and/or expansion of primary and secondary water 
and sewerage networks;  
(b) 
construction of water treatment plants, pumping stations and main collectors; 
(c) 
construction of wastewater treatment infrastructure, including, inter alia,
treatment plants and discharge infrastructure; and 
(d) 
investments for the improvement of system performance, inter alia, isolation 
valves, macro- and micro-metering, computer systems, network registries, and 
cadastres of users. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of engineering designs and 
environmental and social assessments of any proposed Urban Infrastructure Investment. 
Part 2. 
Rural Pilots 
 
Carrying out of small pilot projects (each, a “Rural Pilot Project”) in Selected Rural 
Areas to improve the access to water supply and sanitation services in those areas 
consisting of the following activities: 
(a) 
design of the proposed Rural Pilot Project, including, inter alia, its social 
formulation using participatory methodologies and preparation of an IPP, if 
required by the IPPF; 
(b) 
carrying out of civil works based on the final design of the Rural Pilot Project; 
(c) 
establishment of community-based institutional arrangements for sustainable 
management of those communities’ water supply and sanitation services, 
including, inter alia, through the creation of a community micro-enterprise to 
manage the operation of the basic service; and 
- 6 -
(d) 
design and implementation of culturally-appropriate educational programs on 
hygiene and water resources management. 
Part 3. 
Project Management and Analytical Activities 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, training and operating costs to the PIU for 
use in implementing, managing, supervising and auditing of the Project, including, inter 
alia, the benchmarking and monitoring and evaluation of the Project.  
2. 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, training and operating costs to the PIU in 
connection with certain environmental and social studies and activities related to the 
Project, including, inter alia the following: 
(a) 
development of a drinking water quality and hand washing program of outreach 
and learning; 
(b) 
activities supporting the institutional strengthening of the PIU, including the 
contracting of environmental and social specialists; 
(c) 
carrying out of a strategic water resources management assessment of the Project 
and the Program; 
(d) 
carrying out of a study on the reduction of vulnerability to urban floods; 
(e) 
carrying out of periodic environmental audits; 
(f) 
environmental and social training activities for staff of the PIU; and 
(g) 
carrying out an environmental health impact assessment. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance to the PIU for the design and implementation of a 
citizen accountability mechanism for the Project. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and training to the PIU for activities related 
to the design and preparation of the second phase of the Program, including, inter alia,
the carrying out of groundwater studies and the preparation of a program for increasing 
the participation of the rural indigenous people in the Program. 
5. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to the Borrower, where appropriate, for 
capacity-building and institutional strengthening in the area of water supply and 
sanitation. 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall during the implementation of 
the Project: 
(a) 
(i) maintain the PIU to implement, manage and coordinate the Project with terms 
of reference, staff and resources in accordance with the Operational Manual and 
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) ensure that the PIU and its staff have the ability, 
in the opinion of the Bank, to perform their obligations as contemplated under the 
provisions of this Agreement and the Operational Manual; 
(b) 
constitute and maintain an executive committee for the Project (the “Project 
Executive Committee”) to provide overall guidance on the implementation of the 
Project: (i) composed of representatives of the Borrower, CORPOGUAJIRA, the 
Participating Municipalities, DNP (or their designated representative), and 
MAVDT (with MAVDT retaining the right to veto decisions of the Project 
Executive Committee), and an observer from the Fiduciary Agent; and (ii) with 
the key responsibilities and purposes described in the Operational Manual, 
including, inter alia: (A) reviewing the performance of the PIU and Fiduciary 
Agent; (B) approving the POI, the designation of Project funds to specific 
contracts, the renegotiated and new contracts with existing or new Specialized 
Operators; and (C) providing guidance on specific implementation problems as 
they arise; and 
(c) 
constitute and maintain a technical committee for the Project (the “Project 
Technical Committee”) to provide technical guidance on the implementation of 
the Project: (i) composed of representatives from the technical staffs of the 
Borrower (including, inter alia,
the PIU), MAVDT, the Participating 
Municipalities, and the Specialized Operators, and an observer from the 
Fiduciary Agent; and (ii) with the key responsibilities and purposes described in 
the Operational Manual, including, inter alia: (A) technical review of  POI; (B) 
technical review and approval of designs, bidding documents and evaluations 
prepared by Specialized Operators; and (C) the provision of guidance on specific 
technical problems as they arise. 
2. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project and repaying the Loan, the Borrower shall from 
the date of this Agreement and continuing until the full repayment of the Loan: 
(a) 
ensure that any and all amounts payable to the Borrower in respect of the 
Royalties are deposited in the accounts specified by the Fiduciary Agent in 
accordance with the Fiduciary Contract and the Operational Manual; and 
(b) 
maintain the Fiduciary Contract and the financial arrangements with the 
Fiduciary Agent for the administration of the Royalties, the proceeds of the Loan 
- 8 -
and other counterpart funds for the Project, all as set forth in the Operational 
Manual and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
3. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall until the completion of the 
Project instruct the Fiduciary Agent to allocate and make available a portion of the 
Royalties equal to the amount of the Borrower’s counterpart funding obligations for the 
Project as agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Specific Procedures for Urban Infrastructure Investments 
1. 
Before initiating any Urban Infrastructure Investment in a given Participating 
Municipality and as a condition to carrying out such Urban Infrastructure Investment and 
for making any withdrawal under Category (1), the Borrower shall first require that such 
Participating Municipality (the “Preliminary Requirements”): 
(a) 
if such Participating Municipality has an existing Operator Contract, commence 
good faith renegotiations of such Operator Contract with the Specialized 
Operator that is the party to such Operator Contract in order to incorporate the 
provisions that are necessary to carry out such Urban Infrastructure Investment, 
including, inter alia, the applicable provisions of this Agreement, the new 
performance targets, the new investment requirements, and the Borrower’s 
Intervention Rights (including, inter alia, those rights described in paragraph 4 of 
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement); 
(b) 
if such Participating Municipality does not have an existing Operator Contract, 
commence the bidding process for selecting a Specialized Operator in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; 
(c) 
enter into a financial support agreement (convenio de apoyo financiero) with the 
Borrower, substantially in the form incorporated in the Operational Manual and 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (“Financial Support 
Agreement”), including, inter alia: (i) a description of any proposed Urban 
Infrastructure Investments; (ii) the amount of financing to be provided for such 
investments by the Borrower, the Participating Municipality and the Specialized 
Operator; (iii) the Participating Municipality’s obligation to ensure that the 
Specialized Operator carries out all Urban Infrastructure Investments in 
accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement, the Operational 
Manual, the IPPF, the recommendations of the EA, the RPF, the Procurement 
Guidelines, the Consultant Guidelines, and the Procurement Plan; (iv) the 
Participating Municipality’s obligation to deposit its Law 715 Transfers in the 
account specified by the Fiduciary Agent; (v) a procedure for compensating the 
Borrower for any Urban Infrastructure Investments carried out by the Borrower 
in the event that such Participating Municipality fails to satisfy the Secondary 
Requirements; (vi) a delegation of authority by such Participating Municipality to 
the Borrower to provide the Fiduciary Agent with instructions as to the 
- 9 -
disbursement of its Law 715 Transfers; (vii) compliance with the requirements of 
this paragraph and with the applicable provisions of this Agreement and the 
Operational Manual; and (viii) any additional terms and conditions required by 
the Guarantor or the Borrower as a condition to allowing the Participating 
Municipality to participate in the Project; and 
(d) 
if such Participating Municipality has an existing Operator Contract, enter into a 
side agreement (carta de compromiso y ejecución) with the Specialized Operator, 
substantially in the form incorporated in the Operational Manual and on terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (“Side Agreement”), including, inter alia:
(i) the procedures that the Specialized Operator must follow in carrying out the 
proposed Urban Infrastructure Investment; (ii) the new execution and 
performance improvement arrangements for the Specialized Operator; and 
(iii) the amount of financing for the Urban Infrastructure Investment to be 
provided by the Borrower and the given Participating Municipality. 
2. 
If the Bank receives evidence that the Preliminary Requirements have been satisfied with 
respect to a given Participating Municipality, the Borrower may make withdrawals of the 
proceeds of the Loan under Category (1), subject to the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures related to any Urban Infrastructure Investment in 
such Participating Municipality, provided that: 
(a) 
the aggregate amount of all withdrawals by the Borrower under Category (1) 
(including the proposed withdrawal, any withdrawals that have been made, and 
any pending withdrawals that are being processed) for Urban Infrastructure 
Investments in Participating Municipalities that have not satisfied the Secondary 
Requirements shall not exceed 5% of the total amount allocated to Category (1); 
(b) 
such Urban Infrastructure Investment is carried out by the Borrower through the 
PIU in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Operational 
Manual; and 
(c) 
the Borrower and such Participating Municipality furnish opinions from counsel 
satisfactory to the Bank that the applicable Financial Support Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding 
upon such parties in accordance with their terms. 
3. 
If the following requirements (the “Secondary Requirements”) have been satisfied with 
respect to a given Participating Municipality and the Bank has received the opinions 
described in paragraph 2(c) of this Section I.C, the Borrower may make withdrawals of 
the proceeds of the Loan under Category (1), subject to the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures related to any Urban Infrastructure Investment in 
such Participating Municipality without being subject to the limitations set forth in 
paragraphs 2(a) and 2(b) of this Section I.C: 
(a) 
if such Participating Municipality had an existing Operator Contract: (i) the Bank 
has approved the final draft of the renegotiated Operator Contract incorporating 
the provisions described in paragraph 1(a) of Section I.C; and (ii) the Bank has 
received evidence that such Participating Municipality and the Specialized 
- 10 -
Operator that was a party to such Operator Contract have signed the renegotiated 
Operator Contract approved by the Bank; 
(b) 
if such Participating Municipality did not have an existing Operator Contract: 
(i) the proposed Specialized Operator meets the eligibility criteria specified in the 
Operational Manual; (ii) the Bank has approved the final draft of the proposed 
Operator Contract and Side Agreement, on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank; and (iii) the Bank has received evidence that such Participating 
Municipality and Specialized Operator have signed the Operator Contract and 
Side Agreement approved by the Bank; and 
(c) 
if requested by the Bank, such Participating Municipality and Specialized 
Operator have furnished opinions from counsel satisfactory to the Bank that the 
applicable Operator Contract and Side Agreement have been duly authorized or 
ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in 
accordance with their terms. 
4. 
The Borrower shall obtain rights under the applicable Implementation Agreements that 
are adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, including, inter alia, the right 
to: 
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of any Implementing Party to receive or use the 
proceeds of the Loan, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the 
Loan then withdrawn, upon the Implementing Party’s failure to perform any of 
its respective obligations under the Implementation Agreements to which it is a 
party; and 
(b) 
require each Implementing Party to: (i) carry out its activities under the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and 
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other 
than the Borrower; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for 
the purpose; (iii) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (iv) maintain policies 
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; (v) (A) maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project; and (B) at the 
Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the 
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (vi) enable the Borrower 
and the Bank to inspect the Urban Infrastructure Investment or any Rural Pilot 
Project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (vii) prepare 
and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or 
the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
- 11 -
5. 
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights under all of the Implementation Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan; and (b) ensure that no Implementing Party fails, in the opinion 
of the Bank, to perform any of its obligations under the Implementation Agreements to 
which it is a party, including, inter alia, those obligations described in paragraph 4(b) of  
Section I.C of this Schedule 2. 
6. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and shall not cause or 
allow any Implementing Party to, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation 
Agreements or any of its provisions. 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of: 
(a) 
this Agreement, including, inter alia, the provisions in this Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
the Operational Manual, the IPPF, any IPP, the EMP, the recommendations of 
the EA, the RPF, and the Procurement Plan; 
(c) 
the Fiduciary Contract; and 
(d) 
the Financial Support Agreements. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each Implementing Party to carry out its respective activities 
under the Project in accordance with the provisions of: 
(a) 
this Agreement, including, inter alia, the provisions in this Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
(c) 
the Operational Manual, the IPPF, any IPP, the EMP, the recommendations of 
the EA, the RPF, and the Procurement Plan; and 
(d) 
the Implementation Agreements to which such Implementing Party is a party. 
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out, or cause the carrying out of the Project, in accordance with 
the provisions of a manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (the 
“Operational Manual”), that shall contain the policies and procedures for carrying out, 
monitoring and evaluating all parts of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) 
the detailed eligibility criteria and procedures for selecting the Participating 
Municipalities; 
(b) 
the detailed eligibility criteria and procedures for selecting a Specialized 
Operator in cases where a Participating Municipality does not have an existing 
Operator Contract; 
- 12 -
(c) 
the detailed funds flow and financial arrangements for both implementation of 
the Project and the repayment of the Loan, including, inter alia, the flow of 
proceeds of the Loan, the Royalties, and the Law 715 Transfers to the Fiduciary 
Agent; 
(d) 
the steps of the process of selecting, implementing, monitoring and evaluating 
each of the Urban Infrastructure Investments, including, inter alia: (i) the PIU’s 
review of each Specialized Operator’s proposed POI, bidding documents, and 
procurement contracts; (ii) the PIU’s review of the documentation provided by 
the Specialized Operators and the contractors in connection with payments to 
contractors; and (iii) the timing for the signing of the Implementation 
Agreements; 
(e) 
the steps of the process for designing and implementing the Rural Pilot Projects, 
including, inter alia, the timing of the preparation of any IPP; 
(f) 
the powers, functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff of the PIU, the 
Project Executive Committee, and Project Technical Committee; 
(g) 
the model forms of all of the Implementation Agreements and the standard 
bidding documents and contracts to be used for procurement of goods, works and 
services under the Project; 
(h) 
the final form of the interim unaudited financial reports and Financial Statements 
for the Project and the terms of reference for the audits of the Project; and 
(i) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements, 
procedures, and documentation for all parts of the Project. 
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and shall not cause or 
allow any Implementing Party to, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual, Fiduciary Contract, EA, EMP, IPPF, any IPP, the RPF or any 
provisions thereof.  In case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those 
of the Operational Manual or any Implementation Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
5. 
Before commencing any works under Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the 
PIU to complete an IPP, if required under the IPPF, in accordance with the requirements 
and procedures in the Operational Manual and the IPPF. 
6. 
The Borrower shall, through the PIU, require that: 
(a) 
all of the procurement of works under Part 1 of the Project, whether financed 
with proceeds of the Loan or from other sources, is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, the 
Procurement Guidelines, and the Operational Manual; 
(b) 
all contractors and consultants providing goods or carrying out works and 
services under the Project carry out their activities under the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, 
- 13 -
financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the EA, 
EMP, IPPF, any IPP, the RPF, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and the applicable 
provisions of the Operational Manual; 
(c) 
all bidding documents and contracts under the Project incorporate the 
environmental and social standards satisfactory to the Bank and provide the 
Borrower with Borrower’s Intervention Rights, including, inter alia: (i) upon the 
contractors or consultant’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the 
applicable contract, the ability to: (A) suspend or terminate the right of any 
contractor or consultant to receive or use the proceeds of the Loan; or (B) obtain 
a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Loan withdrawn as of then; (ii) 
the right to inspect any Urban Infrastructure Investment or Rural Pilot Project, its 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) the right to request 
all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the Project; and 
(d) 
the Specialized Operators monitor the compliance of contractors and consultants 
with the financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish, or shall cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank not later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The 
- 14 -
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, Annex A to this Schedule, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section and in Annex A to this 
Schedule to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank 
of particular contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  Annex A to this Schedule 2  specifies the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in 
Section I of Annex A to this Schedule 2. 
(b) 
Shopping, subject to the additional provisions set forth in Section II of Annex A 
to this Schedule 2. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
the short list of consultant firms for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
- 15 -
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  Except as otherwise indicated in the 
following table, the Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications for those contracts that cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
(e) 
Single-source Selection 
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
processes and documents shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: 
(a) 
the procurement process, including, inter alia, all forms and models of requests 
for quotations and bidding documents, for the procurement of goods or works 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, National 
Competitive Bidding, or Shopping; and 
(b) 
the selection process, including, inter alia, all forms and models of requests for 
proposals and proposal documents, for consultants’ services that are provided by: 
(i) a firm and estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; or (ii) an 
individual and estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither the Borrower nor any Implementing 
Party shall revise or otherwise modify or change the documents that have been approved 
by the Bank in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Section III.D. 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:   
(a) 
all contracts for goods and works procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding or National Competitive Bidding; 
(b) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by: (i) a firm and estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) an individual and estimated to 
cost $50,000 or more; and 
(c) 
all contracts for consultants’ services awarded on the basis of Single-source 
Selection. 
- 16 -
4. 
In addition to the contracts described in paragraph 3 of this Section III.D, the 
Procurement Plan shall set forth those other contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  In 
the case of a conflict between the provisions of the Procurement Plan and the provisions 
of this Agreement, the Borrower will ensure that the provisions of this Agreement will 
prevail. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Goods, works and consultants’ 
services under Part 1 of the 
Project 
76,000,000
75% 
(2) 
Goods, works and consultants’ 
services under Part 2 of the 
Project 
7,000,000
100% 
(3) 
Goods, consultants’ services and 
Operating Costs under Part 3 of 
the Project 
7,000,000
100% 
(4) 
Front-end Fee 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.04 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
90,000,000
3. 
Capitalized terms used in the table in paragraph 2 above are defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement. 
- 17 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee, if any 
and if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end Fee. 
2. 
The Closing Date is October 15, 2011. 
 
- 18 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
Additional Provisions Relating to  
Particular Methods of Procurement 
 
Section I. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated 
to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be used, 
standard bidding documents, as approved by the Bank for bidding under the 
Project and incorporated in the Operational Manual (the “Standard Bidding 
Documents”). Any change or departure from the Standard Bidding Document 
approved by the Bank shall require its prior approval. 
 
(b) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or citizens of the 
Guarantor’s territory, will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will 
be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders 
shall be allowed to submit their bids by hand or through the post office or private 
mailing services. There shall not be any requirement for any bidder to show 
evidence of the bidder's registration in any public registry, chamber of commerce 
or similar entity, whether in the Guarantor’s territory or elsewhere, or to appoint 
a representative domiciled in Guarantor’s territory, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract. 
 
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening 
shall coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the 
period for bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents. 
 
(d) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. 
Such determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, 
conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any 
factor additional to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid 
evaluation, such factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will 
be applied for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely 
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the 
bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction 
of arithmetic errors. 
 
- 19 -
(e) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons 
officially charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while 
they are performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder’s 
written authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such 
authorization as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement 
shall apply until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. 
Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for 
which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question. 
 
Section II. 
Shopping
Contracts for goods or works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping subject to the following 
additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall obtain and compare at least three quotations to establish 
reasonableness of price. Comparison of two quotations is justified only when 
there is evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that there are only two reliable sources 
of supply (national or foreign as the case may be). For international shopping, the 
Borrower shall request quotations of suppliers from at least two different 
countries, including the country of the Guarantor. Quotation for foreign goods 
located in the Guarantor’s country and offered by a firm located in the 
Guarantor’s country, are considered as quoted from abroad for purposes of 
satisfying the “two different countries” rule. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall verify that the firms invited to quote are reputable, well 
established, and are suppliers of the goods or services being purchased as part of 
their normal business. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall request quotations by letter, fax, telex, electronic messaging, 
etc., (with proof of receipt and record keeping). Since quotation requests must be 
sent to reputable and well-established suppliers only, the requests should not be 
open to any other supplier and should not be made public. Suppliers shall submit 
their quotations in writing, (i.e., by fax, telex, letter, or electronic messaging with 
copies to be kept for the records).  No bid security is required.  There is no 
requirement for strict time and date for submission of quotations and for public 
opening, but normally requests for quotes indicate the expected date of 
submission of quotes, within one or two weeks of the initial request. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2011  
 
through April 15, 2022 
 
4.17% 
On October 15, 2022 
 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
- 21 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
- 22 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“ANH” means the Agencia Nacional de Hidrocarburos and any successor entity of the 
Guarantor authorized by the Guarantor’s Ministry of Mines and Energy (Ministrio de 
Minas y Energía) pursuant to the Guarantor’s Decree No. 1760 of 2003, to calculate, 
collect and administer any royalties (regalías) or other monetary compensation related to 
the extraction of hydrocarbons in the Guarantor’s territory. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Borrower’s Intervention Rights” means those rights of intervention (derechos de 
intervención) granted to the Borrower under the Implementation Agreements and any 
other contracts related to the Project to which the Borrower is not otherwise a party or 
signatory. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
6. 
“CORPOGUAJIRA” means the environmental agency (Corporación
Autonoma 
Regional) for the Borrower’s territory that was created pursuant to Guarantor’s Law 
No. 99 of 1993. 
7. 
“DNP” means the Guarantor’s Department of National Planning (Departamento 
Nacional de Planeación). 
8. 
“EA” means the Environmental Analysis (Análisis Ambiental) dated July 27, 2006, that 
was prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank on July 27, 2006, as the same 
may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time with the consent 
of the Bank. 
9. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan (Plan de Manejo Ambiental) dated 
July 27, 2006, that was prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank on July 27, 
2006, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to 
time with the consent of the Bank. 
10. 
“Fiduciary Agent” means a financial institution acceptable to the Bank that shall act as 
the fiduciary agent (fiduciaria) under the Fiduciary Contract, or any successor agent 
acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank.  
11. 
“Fiduciary Contract” means the fiduciary contract (contrato de encargo fiduciario de 
administración y pagos) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Fiduciary 
Agent for the administration of the various funds of the Project, including inter alia, the 
- 23 -
Royalties and the proceeds of the Loan, in accordance with the laws of the Guarantor and 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank. 
12. 
“Financial Support Agreement” has the meaning given to it in Section I.C.1(c) of 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006). 
14. 
“Implementation Agreement” means, any of the following: the Fiduciary Contract, 
Financial 
Support 
Agreements, 
Operator 
Contracts, 
and 
Side 
Agreements.  
“Implementation Agreements” means collectively, all of such agreements. 
15. 
“Implementing Party” means any of the following: the Fiduciary Agent, a Participating 
Municipality, or a Specialized Operator.  “Implementing Parties” means collectively, all 
such persons. 
16. 
“Indicators” means the impact, performance and implementation indicators set forth in 
the Operational Manual. 
17. 
“INGEOMINAS” means the Guarantor’s Instituto Colombiano de Geología y Minería 
and any successor entity of the Guarantor authorized by the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
Mines and Energy (Ministrio de Minas y Energía) pursuant to the Guarantor’s Resolution 
No. 180074 of January 27, 2004, to calculate, collect and transfer any royalties (regalías)
or other monetary compensation related to the extraction of coal in the Guarantor’s 
territory. 
18. 
“IPP” means any Indigenous Peoples Plan prepared by the Borrower during the 
implementation of the Project pursuant to the requirements of the IPPF that has been 
approved by the Bank, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise 
modified from time to time with the consent of the Bank. 
19. 
“IPPF” means the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (Marco de Planeamiento de 
Pueblos Indígenas) dated January 29, 2007, that was prepared by the Borrower and 
approved by the Bank on January 29, 2007, as the same may be amended, supplemented 
or otherwise modified from time to time with the consent of the Bank. 
20. 
“Law 715 Transfers” means those financial resources provided by the Guarantor to each 
Participating Municipality for investments for water supply and sanitation pursuant to the 
general purposes of the Guarantor’s Law 715 of December 21, 2001, as amended. 
21. 
“MAVDT” means the Guarantor’s Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Regional 
Development (Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda, y Desarrollo Territorial). 
22. 
“Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures (other than those expenditures for 
goods and consultants’ services) that the Bank agrees have been reasonably incurred by 
the PIU in connection with incremental recurrent costs associated with the 
implementation of the Project by the PIU, including, inter alia, office expenses, rent and 
utilities, transportation, and other reasonable costs related to the Project. 
- 24 -
23. 
“Operational Manual” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 3 of Section I.D of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise 
modified from time to time with the consent of the Bank. 
24. 
“Operator Contract” means an agreement between a Participating Municipality and a 
Specialized Operator for the operation and maintenance of the Participating 
Municipality’s water supply and sanitation service infrastructure. 
25. 
“Participating Municipality” means any municipality in the territory of the Borrower that 
meets the eligibility criteria described in the Operational Manual for participating in 
Part 1 of the Project and whose participation in Part 1 of the Project has been approved 
by the Bank. 
26. 
“PIU” means the implementation committee for the Project and the Program constituted 
by the Borrower’s Governor pursuant to Resolution No. 081 of 2007. 
27. 
“POI” means the capital investment plans for infrastructure works (Plan de Obras e 
Inversión) prepared on an annual and multi-annual basis by each Specialized Operator. 
28. 
“Preliminary Requirements” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 1 of Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
29. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
30. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
February 2, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
31. 
“Program” means the Borrower’s Program of Infrastructure and Administration of Water 
and Sanitation Services for the Department of La Guajira (Programa de Infraestructura y 
Gestión de los Servicios de Agua y Saneamiento para el Departamento de la Guajira, 
also known as the Programa de Transformación Estructural de la Prestación de los 
Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico en el Departamento de La Guajira and 
La Revolución del Agua) designed to improve the quality of water and optimize potable 
water and basic sanitation services in the territory of the Borrower and described in the 
letter dated February 7, 2007, from the Borrower to the Bank. 
32. 
“Project Executive Committee” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 1(b) of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
33. 
“Project Technical Committee” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 1(c) of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
34. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework dated July 27, 2006, that was prepared 
by the Borrower and approved by the Bank on July 27, 2006, as the same may be 
amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time with the consent of the 
Bank. 
- 25 -
35. 
“Royalties” means the royalties (regalias) or other monetary compensation to which the 
Borrower is entitled as a result of the development, extraction or sale of hydrocarbons 
and coal located in the Borrower’s territory, including, inter alia, any amounts collected 
by INGEOMINAS and ANH on behalf of the Borrower. 
36. 
“Rural Pilot Project” has the meaning given to it in the first paragraph of Part 2 to 
Schedule 1 of this Agreement. 
37. 
“Secondary Requirements” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 3 of Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
38. 
“Selected Rural Areas” means any area in the territory of the Borrower that meets the 
eligibility criteria described in the Operational Manual for participating in Part 2 of the 
Project and whose inclusion in Part 2 of the Project has been approved by the Bank. 
39. 
“Side Agreement” as the meaning given to it in paragraph 1(d) of Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
40. 
“Specialized Operator” means an entity that meets the eligibility criteria specified in the 
Operational Manual, including, inter alia, being a public or private, commercially 
independent entity that has full responsibility for managing the water supply and 
sanitation service infrastructure of one or more municipalities, including, inter alia, tariff 
setting, billing and collection, and the provision of services. 
41. 
“Standard Bidding Documents” has the meaning given to it in clause (a) of Section I of 
Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
42. 
“Urban Infrastructure Investment” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 1 of Part 1 of 
Schedule 
1 
of 
this 
Agreement.
 
