CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7457-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Loan for the Integrated Mass Transit Systems Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
Dated December 19, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7457-CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 19, 2007, (the Agreement) entered into between 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing a 
loan (the Loan) to assist in financing the expansion of the activities related to the Original 
Project set forth in the Original Loan Agreement to new Participating Cities (all as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II —    LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred seven million Dollars 
($207,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
per cent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
2
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its continued commitment to the objective of the Project.  
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MOT, as successor 
to DNP and with the assistance of the Participating Cities and the city of Bogotá, 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through MOT, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, entered into between DNP, then acting on 
behalf of the Borrower, MHCP, MOT, the Participating Cities and the City of 
Bogotá, respectively (the Subsidiary Agreements), shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
3
the ability of the MHCP, MOT, the Participating Cities and the city of Bogotá to 
perform any of their respective obligations under the  Project. 
 
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the Bank’s rights and remedies set forth in Section 7.02 of 
the General Conditions, it is understood that, if any of the events specified in 
Section 4.01 shall have occurred, the Bank may choose, after consultations with 
the Borrower, to suspend in whole or in part only, the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures under Part B.1 and/or 
Part B.2 of the Project.  
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
 
the Subsidiary Agreements between DNP, then acting on behalf of the Borrower, 
 
and, MHCP, MOT, the Participating Cities and the city of Bogotá, respectively,  
 
have been updated, satisfactory to the Bank, to reflect the implementation 
 
arrangements of this Loan. 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Loan Agreement, but in 
 
no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on December 12, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7A No. 6-45 Piso 3 
Bogota, D.C. COLOMBIA 
 
Cable:  
 
Facsimile: 
MINHACIENDA 
(571) 350-9344 
 
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI)  
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Mauricio Suarez  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
The Project consists entirely of the Original Project which  maintains as its 
objective to: (a) develop high quality and sustainable BRTS in Participating Cities to 
improve mobility along strategic mass transit corridors; (b) improve accessibility to 
public transportation for the poor; and (c) build greater institutional capacity in the 
Borrower’s public transportation institutions in order to formulate integrated urban 
transport policies and to improve urban transport planning and traffic management. 
The Project consists of all the parts previously set forth in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOT shall maintain all the institutional arrangements set 
forth in the Original Project, including the operation of a Project coordination 
unit in MOT, under the terms and conditions set forth in the Original Project.   
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MOT, continue to carry out and maintain 
thereunder, satisfactory to the Bank, all the terms and conditions of the 
Subsidiary Agreements with MHCP, MOT, the Participating Cities and the City 
of Bogotá.   
 
2. 
The Borrower shall continue to exercise its rights under each Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not thenceforward assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C. 
Implementation Documents 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOT, has adopted an operational manual dated January 
2005, as amended to date, satisfactory to the Bank which consists of different 
schedules, setting forth the rules, methods, guidelines, specific development 
plans, standard documents and procedures to be maintained for the further 
carrying out of the Project.  
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with any 
one under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time in consultation    
with, and after approval of, the Bank. 
D. 
 Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall continue, not later than December 31 of each 
year during Project implementation, to furnish to the Bank for approval, an 
annual action plan (the Annual Action Plan), under terms and conditions 
specified in the Original Project. 
7
E. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall ensure that the commitments and actions 
agreed under each respective Subsidiary Agreement for the mitigation and related 
monitoring of the environmental aspects, the cultural property protection, the 
institutional strengthening, the resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons and all other environmental measures set forth in the corresponding EMP 
and RAPs continue to be carried out as agreed with the Bank as part  of the 
implementation of Part B.1 and/or Part B.2 of the Project.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall maintain the same arrangements for Project 
monitoring, reporting and evaluation as are set forth in the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOT, shall maintain all the arrangements for financial 
management, financial reports and audits of Project execution that are set forth in 
the Original Loan Agreement.  
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services. All goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services required for the Project under this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project under 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of the Original Loan Agreement. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the  Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
8
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to  finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Transfers for Part B.1 of   
 
the Project 
 
100,000,000 
100% of amounts of the Project 
transferred by the Borrower 
through MHCP to participating 
Cities under the corresponding 
Subsidiary Agreement 
(2) Transfers for Part B.2 of 
 
the Project 
 
107,000,000 
100% of amounts of the Project 
transferred by the Borrower 
through MHCP to the city of 
Bogotá under the corresponding 
Subsidiary Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
207,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$41,400,000 (forty one million four hundred thousand Dollars) may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule on account of payments made within twelve 
months prior to the date of this Agreement, but not earlier than April 30, 
2007; 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2009. 
9
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the  Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the   
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn   Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning on February 15, 2016  
 
through August 15, 2020. 
 
10 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
10
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date, shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, if at any time 
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions 
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made 
after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
11
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of an involuntary taking of 
land under the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset  acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets 
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, 
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or 
permanently; and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons. 
 
2. 
“BRTS” means bus rapid transit systems in Participating Cities (as hereinafter 
defined). 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“DNP” means Departamento Nacional de Planeación, the Borrower’s Planning 
Department, which obligations under the Original Loan Agreement were 
transferred to MOT upon the fulfillment of certain conditions set forth in the 
Implementation Letter. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plans” and the acronym “EMPs” mean the plans of 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower, with the approval of 
the Bank, for the carrying out of Parts B.1 and/or B.2 of the Project, according to 
a framework prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank,  which sets 
forth the objectives, policies, monitoring procedures, time schedules and other 
environmental and cultural property protection provisions to: (i) mitigate 
potential adverse environmental effects; (ii) mitigate potential adverse effects to 
natural habitats; and (iii) mitigate adverse effects to cultural properties 
encountered in the carrying out of Parts B.1, and/or B.2 of the Project, as such 
plan may be revised from time to time with the prior written consent of the Bank. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions”, dated July 1, 2005, as amended through 
October 17, 2007. 
 
8. 
“Implementation Letter for the Additional Loan” means the letter of even date 
herewith from the Borrower to the Bank, setting forth Project monitoring 
12
indicators for the scaling up of the Project to additional eligible Participating 
Cities.  
9. 
“MHCP” means Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto.  
10. 
“MOT” means Ministerio de Transporte, the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport 
or any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.C.1of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank for an Integrated Mass Transit Systems Project, dated September 21, 
2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7231-CO). 
 
13. 
“Original Project” means the Project first described in the Original Loan 
Agreement and referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Participating City” and “Participating Cities” mean the Borrower’s cities 
selected according to eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for 
the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
16. 
“Remedial Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean the 
remedial resettlement action plans related to the carrying out of Part B.2 of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the Participating Cities under the 
Borrower’s supervision exercised through MOT, and which sets forth the 
principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation of Affected Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as such plans 
may be revised from time to time with the prior consent of the Bank. The RAPs 
will also take into consideration the assessment of the reestablishment of 
socioeconomic conditions of population already displaced and to be displaced as 
a result of the carrying out of Part B.2 of the Project. 
 
17. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” mean the agreements entered into between the 
Borrower, then acting through DNP, with MHCP, the Participating Cities, MOT 
and the City of Bogotá, pursuant to Section 1.B of Schedule 2 to this  Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with prior consultation with the 
Bank. 
 
13
18. 
“Transfers” means the amount transferred by the Borrower, through MHCP, to a 
Participating City and/or to the city of Bogotá, to cover the Borrower’s 
contributions to finance goods, works, and services for the: (i) construction of 
segregated busways; (ii) construction of terminals and transfer centers; (iii) 
construction of mixed-traffic lanes adjacent to busway corridors (when their 
geometrical specification is affected); (iv) the construction of sidewalks; (v) 
construction of pedestrian ways along busway corridors; (vi) construction or 
adaptation of complementary transport corridors to the segregated busways; and 
(vii) supervision of works, required for the implementation of Parts B.1  and/or 
Part B.2 of the Project. 
 
