CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7439-PAN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Productivity Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 11, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7439-PAN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 11, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty nine million four hundred 
thousand Dollars ($39,400,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. In the event that the Borrower selects 
not to capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not 
later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
2
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Parts 1, Part 2 and 4 of the Project through 
MIDA and shall cause Part 3 of the Project to be carried out by ANAM, all in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
3
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
ANAM’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ANAM 
to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The agreement dated June 23, 2006 between the Bank acting as an 
Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility and the 
Borrower (“GEF Grant Agreement”) has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower and ANAM, acting 
thereunder as the implementing agency of the Borrower and the recipient 
of grant proceeds from the GEF Grant Agreement, to perform any of 
their respective obligations under the GEF Grant Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that any 
of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
ANAM. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
ANAM and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ANAM in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
expire on September 22, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 
4
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
(507) 507-7200 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Panama City, Panama, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
By /s/ Héctor E. Alexander H. 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to increased productivity among 
organized rural small-scale producers of the Borrower’s territory through their 
participation in productive alliances, while ensuring the sustainable use of natural 
resources and the conservation of globally important biodiversity.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1:  Support for Productive Alliances
1.1. 
Provision of support for the carrying out of all preparatory activities that 
contribute to the presentation by RPAs of viable business plans for proposed 
productive alliances.  
 
1.2. 
Provision of technical advisory services to RPAs in connection with the 
preparation and the implementation of the Project and the execution of RPAs’ 
approved business plans. 
 
Part 2:  Productive Alliances
The provision of Productive Grants to RPAs for the implementation of selected 
Productive Subprojects prepared in the context of business plans for productive alliances 
between RPAs and at least one agroprocessor, wholesaler or other commercial partner, to 
be carried out in the Borrower’s provinces of Herrera, Los Santos and Veraguas.
Part 3:  Environmental Subprojects and Strengthening of NPAS
The provision of: (a) Environmental Grants to CBOs for the carrying out of 
Environmental Subprojects in environmental resources; (b) support for the management 
of natural resources and the strengthening of NPAS; and (c) support for the monitoring, 
evaluation and management of this Part 3 of the Project by ANAM. 
 
Part 4:  Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
The provision of support for the implementation of the Project by MIDA and the 
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system in relation thereto. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
Maintain in MIDA, throughout Project implementation, personnel:  
(i) 
adequate in numbers and with functions and resources at all 
times satisfactory to the Bank; including a coordinator, a 
financial management specialist and a procurement specialist, all 
to be selected in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule; and 
(ii) 
responsible for the effective coordination of Parts 1, 2 and 4 of 
the Project, including procurement, financial management, audit, 
and monitoring and evaluation and all technical aspects in 
relation thereto. 
 (b) 
Ensure that MIDA submits Project annual operating plans and budgets to 
the Bank for its review and approval. 
2. 
The Borrower shall establish for purposes of Parts 1, 2 and 4 of the Project, and 
maintain throughout Project implementation, a steering committee responsible 
for Project oversight and coordination, as set forth in the Operational Manual and 
which duties shall include:  
 
(a) 
the approval of Project annual operating plans; 
 
(b) 
overseeing Project performance; and  
 
(c) 
suggesting necessary adjustments to Project implementation based on 
results of the Project monitoring and evaluation system.  
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 3 of the Project by ANAM, the Borrower 
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to ANAM under a 
subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and ANAM, under terms and 
8
conditions approved by the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”), which shall include 
the following:  
 
(a) 
the commitment by ANAM to carry out the execution of Part 3 of the 
Project with staff having, at all times during Project implementation, 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(b) 
the requirement that ANAM shall  carry out the action plan agreed with 
the Bank, dated August 18, 2006, as amended through to January 24, 
2007, to strengthen its financial management capacity for the Project; 
and 
 
(c) 
the requirement that ANAM shall carry out Part 3 of the Project in 
accordance with the OM adopted by ANAM. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
C. 
Implementation Documents 
1. 
(a)  
The Borrower has, through MIDA, adopted a Project operational 
manual dated January 31, 2007 and has caused ANAM to adopt 
a Project operational manual dated April 24, 2006, both 
satisfactory to the Bank, therein setting forth rules, methods, 
guidelines, standard documents and procedures for the carrying 
out of the Project, including the following: 
 
(i) 
(A) the detailed description of Project implementation 
activities, their sequencing and the prospective timetable 
and benchmarks in relation thereto; and (B) the detailed 
institutional arrangements in respect thereof;  
 
(ii) 
the 
Project 
administrative, 
accounting, 
auditing, 
reporting, financial, procurement and disbursement 
procedures, including all pertinent standard documents 
and model contracts in relation thereto;  
 
(iii) 
the criteria for: (A) the eligibility of RPAs and CBOs; 
(B) the selection, approval, implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Productive Subprojects and the 
Environmental Subprojects; (C) the terms and conditions 
for the Productive Grants and the Environmental Grants, 
9
including, inter alia,
the arrangements for the 
management of funds disbursed for the implementation 
of the Productive Subprojects; and (D) the model forms 
for 
the 
Productive 
Grant 
Agreements 
and 
the 
Environmental Grant Agreements; 
(iv) 
the Environmental Management Framework, the RPF 
and the IPP for the Project; 
 
(v) 
the plan for the training and capacity building activities 
under the Project;  
 
(vi) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the 
Project, including all environmental, macroeconomic 
and social aspects in relation thereto; and 
 
(vii) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MIDA, and shall cause ANAM to, carry out 
the Project in accordance with the respective OMs. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of an OM shall conflict with any one under this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
An OM may only be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written 
consent. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. 
Subprojects 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) through MIDA, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with an eligible RPA; and (b) cause ANAM to enter into an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with an eligible CBO, therein setting forth the respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, notably with respect to the preparation and 
implementation of the Productive Subproject and the Environmental Subproject, 
respectively. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MIDA, make a Productive Grant to an RPA and, 
shall cause ANAM to make an Environmental Grant to a CBO, both in 
accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures, all as set forth in the 
respective OMs and which shall include the following: 
10
(a) 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) (i) hereunder, the Productive 
Grants from MIDA to RPAs and the Environmental Grants from ANAM 
to CBOs shall be made on a non-reimbursable basis to either MIDA or 
ANAM. 
 
(b) 
(i) The Productive Grants shall be made to RPAs to increase rural 
productivity in the context of productive alliances between RPAs and at 
least one agroprocessor, wholesaler or other commercial partner; and (ii) 
the Environmental Grants shall be made between ANAM and a CBO for 
small-scale investments in natural resource management and productive 
opportunities.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, through MIDA, and shall cause ANAM to, obtain 
rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, including 
the right to: 
 
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of an RPA and a CBO to use the 
proceeds of a Productive Grant or an Environmental Grant 
respectively, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount 
of a Productive Grant or an Environmental Grant then 
withdrawn, upon the RPA’s and the CBO’s failure to perform 
any of their obligations under the Productive Grant Agreement 
and the Environmental Grant Agreement concerned; and  
 
(ii) 
require each RPA and CBO to:  
 
(A) 
carry out the relevant Productive Subproject and 
Environmental 
Subproject 
respectively 
with 
due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial, 
environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank , including in accordance with 
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the 
Borrower;  
 
(B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for 
the purpose;  
 
(C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out 
of the Productive Grant and the Environmental Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;  
 
(D) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators 
11
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Productive 
Subproject and the Environmental Subproject and the 
achievement of their objectives; 
 
(E) 
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the relevant  
Productive Subproject and Environmental Subproject; 
and (2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have 
such financial statements audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited 
to the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the relevant 
Productive 
Sub-project 
and 
the 
Environmental 
Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents; and  
 
(G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all 
such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MIDA, exercise its rights under each Productive 
Grant Agreement, and cause ANAM to exercise its rights under each 
Environmental Grant Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
 
F. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall, through MIDA, and shall cause ANAM to, ensure that RPAs 
and CBOs carry out respectively the Productive Subprojects and the 
Environmental Subprojects, all in accordance with the Environment Management 
Framework, the RPF and the IPP prepared for the Project. 
G. 
Other  Implementation Arrangements 
1. 
Not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, MIDA shall have carried out the 
action plan agreed with the Bank dated August 18, 2006 as amended through to 
January 24, 2007 for the strengthening of MIDA’s financial management 
capacity for the Project. 
 
12
2. 
Not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, ANAM shall have carried out the 
action plan agreed with the Bank dated January 23, 2007 for the strengthening of 
ANAM’s financial management capacity for the Project. 
 
3. 
Not later than 30 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause ANAM 
to select, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank, 
and thereafter use throughout Project implementation for purposes of the Project, 
a pay agent acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MIDA, and shall cause ANAM to, monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one 
month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than July 31, 2013. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MIDA, maintain and cause ANAM to maintain a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MIDA, prepare and furnish to the Bank in respect of Parts 1, 2 and 4 of 
the Project and shall cause ANAM to prepare and furnish to the Bank in respect 
of Part 3 of the Project, all not later than one month after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) through MIDA, have the Financial Statements for Parts 
1, 2 and 4 of the Project audited; and (b) cause ANAM to have the financial 
statements for Part 3 of the Project audited, all in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the said Project 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower 
and each audit of the financial statements for Part 3 of the Project by ANAM 
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of ANAM. The Project audited Financial 
13
Statements for each such period and the audited financial statements of ANAM 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period.  
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works and Non-
Consultant Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to using 
Standard Bidding Documents agreed with the Bank 
(b) Shopping, subject to using Standard Request for 
Quotations agreed with the Bank 
(c)  Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior 
consent 
14
(d)  Commercial Practices for Productive Subprojects 
under Part 2 of the Project, as further set forth in the 
relevant OM 
(e) 
Community 
Participation 
for 
Environmental 
Subprojects under Part 3 of the Project as further set 
forth in the relevant OM. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
 
(c) Selection based on consultants’ qualifications 
 
(d) Single Source Selection, subject to the Bank’s prior written 
consent  
 
(e) Procedures for the selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
 
Bank’s  Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
15
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to: (a) repay the Project Preparation 
Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 (a) of the General Conditions; and (b) 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below . 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) Goods, Works, Non- Consultant 
Services, Training, Consultants’ Services 
and Operating Costs for Part 1 of the 
Project. 
 
6,400,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, Works and Services for 
Productive Subprojects under Part 2 of the 
Project. 
 
19,000,000 
100% 
(3) Goods, Works and Services for 
Environmental Subprojects under Part 3 
of the Project.  
 
6,000,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, Works, Non- Consultant 
Services, Training, Consultants’ Services 
and Operating Costs for Part 3 of the 
Project. 
 
2,350,000 
100% 
(5) Goods, Works, Non-Consultant 
Services, Training, Consultants’ Services 
and Operating Costs for Part 4 of the 
Project. 
 
3,350,000 
100% 
(6) Refund of the Project Preparation 
Advance 
 
900,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (a) 
of the General 
Conditions 
(7) Unallocated 
 
1,400,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
39,400,000
16
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account (other than to repay the Project Preparation 
Advance) until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end 
Fee;  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million Dollars 
($1,000,000) may be made for payments for Eligible Expenditures made 
between January 31, 2007 and prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
(c) 
under Categories (2) and (3) in the table of paragraph 1 above, unless: (i) 
a Productive Grant Agreement for the carrying out of a Productive 
Subproject and including adequate environmental mitigation measures in 
relation with its implementation, shall have been entered into between an 
RPA and MIDA and; (ii) an Environmental Grant Agreement for the 
carrying out of an Environmental Subproject and including adequate 
environmental mitigations measures in relation with its implementation, 
shall have been entered into between a CBO and ANAM, all the above in 
accordance with the criteria, procedures, terms and conditions set forth in 
the relevant OMs. 
2. 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2013. 
 
17
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each  April 15 and October 15: 
 
 
Beginning April 15, 2012  
Through October 15, 2021 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
18
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
19
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“ANAM” means Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente, the Borrower’s National 
Environment Authority, established by the Borrower’s Ley no. 41 dated July 1, 
1998. 
2. 
“ANAM’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Ley no. 41 dated July 1, 1998.  
 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CBO” means a community-based organization, including a rural producer 
organization, established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower and 
which, upon meeting all criteria set forth in the OM, is determined to be eligible 
to receive an Environmental Grant for the carrying out of an Environmental 
Subproject under the Project. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Grant” means a transfer of resources proposed to be made out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to a CBO under Part 3 of the Project. 
 
8. 
“Environmental Grant Agreement” means an agreement between ANAM and a 
CBO as referred to in section I.E.1 (ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s framework for 
the management of social and environmental aspects of the Project dated January 
19, 2007 and disclosed to the public on even date therewith, as may be amended 
from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
10. 
“Environmental Subproject” means a specific investment in natural resources 
management that is proposed to be financed under Part 3 of the Project. 
 
11. 
“Fiduciary Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
ANAM and an agent pursuant to Section I.G.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
20
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
 
13. 
“IPP” means the Borrower’s Indigenous People’s Plan for the Project dated 
January 19, 2007 and disclosed to the public on even date therewith.  
 
14. 
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
 
15. 
“MIDA” means Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario, the Borrower’s ministry 
of agricultural development. 
 
16. 
“Non-consultant services” means in  respect of Categories (1), (4) and (5) in the 
table of Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, services to be 
contracted for the carrying out of activities related to logistic expenses for 
training and printing and reproduction of training materials. 
 
17. 
“NPAS” means, the Borrower’s National Protected Areas System or Sistema 
Nacional de Áreas Protegidas, established pursuant to Ley 41 of the Borrower, 
dated July 1, 1998, as described and regulated in ANAM Resolution No. JD-09-
94 of June 29, 1994 as amended to date. 
 
18. 
“Operating costs” means in respect of Categories (1), (4) and (5) in the table of 
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, including office equipment and 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, 
office administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs and 
salaries of locally contracted employees.  
 
19. 
“OM” and “Operational Manual” mean a manual for Project implementation as 
referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project 
signed and dated January 31, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
22. 
“Productive Grant” means a transfer of resources proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to an RPA under Part 2 of the Project, subject to the 
21
specific terms and conditions set forth in the OM and the relevant Productive 
Grant Agreement between MIDA and the RPA concerned. 
 
23. 
“Productive Grant Agreement” means an agreement between MIDA and an RPA 
as referred to in Section I.E.1 (i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
24. 
“Productive Subproject” means a specific income enhancing set of activities to 
be carried out by a RPA utilizing the proceeds of a Productive Grant made under 
Part 2 of the Project. 
 
25. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) 
of the General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the 
letter agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on December 28, 2005 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on February 14, 2006. 
 
26. 
“Protected Areas” means collectively the Borrower’s biodiversity areas 
(including buffer zones) as established under article 66 of Ley no.41 of the 
Borrower dated July 1, 1998. 
 
27. 
“RPA” means Rural Producer Association, a group of rural citizens organized 
into a legally-constituted civil association for the common interest of improving 
their productivity, competitiveness and market orientation and which, upon 
meeting all criteria set forth in the OM, is found eligible under the Project to 
receive a Productive Grant on behalf of its members for the carrying out of a 
Productive Subproject. 
 
28. 
“RPF” mean Resettlement Policy Framework, the Borrower’s process framework 
for persons to be potentially displaced on account of Project implementation 
dated January 19, 2007 and disclosed to the public on even date therewith.  
 
29. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Loan available to ANAM. 
 
30. 
“Training” means in respect of Categories (1), (4) and (5) in the table of Section 
IV.A(2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their 
training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii) training 
facility rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction 
and distribution expenses not otherwise covered under said Section IV.A(2) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
22
 
Manju Ghumman 
M:\PANAMA\Projects\1030-Rural productivity\Execution Version of LA.doc 
05/14/2007 
3:24:00 
PM
 
