CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7426-JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Cultural Heritage, Tourism and Urban Development Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 11, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7426-JO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 11, 2007, between THE HASHEMITE 
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions 
or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement the amount of fifty six million dollars 
($56,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with  
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time.
2.04. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
2.06. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
-2- 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Tourism and 
Antiquities in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVE DATE 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Post office Box 555  
Amman, 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
962 464 9341 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
-3- 
 
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By 
 
/s/ Suhair Al-Ali 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
/s/ Juan Jose Daboub 
 
Authorized Representative 
-4- 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to: (a) tourism development in five 
historically and culturally important cities (Jerash, Karak, Madaba, Salt and Ajloun), and 
thereby create the conditions for local economic development; and (b) consolidation of 
the tourism industry in Petra. 
The Project consists of the following four parts: 
Part 1: Revitalization of Historic City Centers, Urban Infrastructure Improvements and 
Cultural Landscapes Regeneration
The carrying out of activities in and around the historic cores of the cities of 
Jerash, Karak, Madaba, Salt and Ajloun including: 
(a) 
upgrading of and improvements to street networks and allied public 
spaces; 
(b) 
rehabilitation and upgrading of pivotal urban spaces; 
(c) 
rehabilitation of façades and landscaping and furnishing of primary 
streets;  
(d) 
renovation and preservation of selected heritage buildings through 
adaptive reuse – including the establishment of a pilot historic 
preservation fund (the Salt Heritage Fund) for restoration of privately 
owned historic buildings in Salt Municipality; 
(e) 
traffic and parking management;  
(f) 
construction and rehabilitation of essential municipal buildings and 
facilities; 
(g) 
regeneration of cultural and natural landscapes in Ajloun; and  
(h) 
preparation of engineering designs and supervision of works required to 
carry out the activities referred to under this Part 1.   
Part 2: Petra Gateway
(a) 
Construction of a new visitors center at the Petra Sanctuary and 
acquisition of essential goods, equipment and furniture for the visitors 
center. 
-5- 
(b) 
Provision of consultant services for detailed design engineering and 
supervision activities. 
(c) 
Provision of consultant services and training for strengthening 
organization and management.  
Part 3: Local Economic Development
Provision of Grants and technical assistance to local entrepreneurs, investors and 
community 
groups 
to 
encourage 
the 
creation 
and/or 
expansion 
of 
environmentally appropriate and financially viable small and medium enterprises 
in the civic core areas,  including: (a) provision of Grants for cultural heritage 
and tourism-related business promotion and development; (b) carrying out of 
business-related workshops and training for Grant recipients; and (c) consultant 
services for development  and management of the Grant program. 
Part 4: Capacity Building and Project Management
Carrying out of capacity building and Project management activities, including:  
(a) (i) Municipal capacity building activities to improve management, 
maintenance, development control, and promotion of historic centers by 
the Project Municipalities, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Municipality Revitalization Pacts; and  (ii) formation and operation of 
Local Strategic Partnerships by Project Municipalities and local 
community and business groups. 
(b) Provision of: (i) Project management support to MOTA, particularly its 
Technical Development Department, in project management, monitoring, 
reporting and evaluation; and (ii) institutional support to MOTA. 
-6- 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Implementation Plan, the Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement 
Policy Framework, and the Resettlement Action Plans. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Plan the Environmental Management Plan, the Resettlement Policy 
Framework, or the Resettlement Action Plans, if, in the opinion of the Bank, such 
amendment or waiver may materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the achievement of the Project objectives.  
2. 
The Borrower shall at all times maintain the Technical Development Department, 
with adequate functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank. The Technical 
Development Department shall be responsible for overall coordination of the Project 
including overseeing the implementation of the Project, the procurement and financial 
processes under the Project and the preparation of Project reports. 
3. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Parts 1, 3 and 4 of the Project the Borrower shall 
ensure that each Project Municipality implement the Project in accordance with the 
provisions agreed and set forth in each Municipal Revitalization Pact and in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and 
each Project Municipality shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Municipal 
Revitalization Pact or any of its provisions. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
(a)  
The report which the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, on or about  
June 30, 2009, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions (for the purposes of this Section “the Mid-Term Review Report”) in addition, 
shall: (i) integrate the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to Paragraph A.1 of this Section II, on the progress achieved since 
commencement of Project implementation in carrying out of the Project; and (ii) set forth 
the measures recommended to ensure satisfactory Project implementation and 
-7- 
achievement of the Project objectives for the remainder of the Project’s implementation; 
and 
(b)  
the Borrower shall review with the Bank, by October 31, 2009, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the Mid-Term Review Report, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the satisfactory completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the Project objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the Mid-Term Review Report and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
3. 
The Mid-Term Review Report shall cover, inter alia: (i) Project scope, design 
and implementation arrangements; (ii) implementation progress against agreed indicators 
in the Project Implementation Plan; (iii) procurement performance; (iv) performance of 
consultants; (v) fund flows; (vi) the progress of implementation of the Resettlement 
Action Plans and the Environmental Management Plan; and (vii) any other issue agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank.  
4. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date. 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, by no later than December 31, 2008: 
(a) each Project Municipality has obtained all necessary detailed special building 
and zoning regulations, each valid and enforceable, for the purpose of preservation of its 
historic city core; and 
(b) in respect of Ajloun, an enforceable master plan together with all applicable 
land use, zoning and building regulations has been approved defining both: (i) the 
boundaries of the protected landscape; and (ii) the containment of the established 
settlements within the protected landscape, for the purpose of declaring its natural 
landscape a protected area. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than one month after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
-8- 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 (five hundred thousand dollars) 
equivalent per contract, and works estimated to cost less than $5,500,000 (five million 
five hundred thousand dollars) equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the  Bank’s 
national procurement procedures and the  following additional procedures:  
(a) Standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used. 
(b) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available to 
prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of bids. 
(c) Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over 
the estimated cost. 
-9- 
(d) Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
(e) Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any 
kind shall be given to national bidders. 
(f) Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be 
stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is required, 
a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be 
given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance i.e. no 
non-registration status should be considered as a non-eligibility-to-bid 
criterion. 
(g) Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(h) Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but no 
later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(i) Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed 
in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified period, 
agreed with the Bank. 
(j) Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
(k) Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When 
two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made 
to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if collusion 
is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the award 
shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and 
(B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be 
invited after receiving the concurrence of the Bank. 
(l) Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial 
period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. Extension of 
bid validity may be sought only under exceptional circumstances. 
(m) Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence 
of the Bank: (A) for the first request for extension if it is longer than 
eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for extensions 
irrespective of the period. 
(n) Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
-10- 
(o) Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(p) All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated 
in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s performance 
security shall apply to a specific contract under which it was furnished. 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding and 
National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
Procurement Method 
(a) Shopping 
(b) Direct Contracting 
(c) Force Account 
4. 
Force Account.
Works, estimated to cost up to a value of $1,000,000 (one 
million dollars) equivalent related to soil stabilization, rehabilitation of valley terraces and 
planting of trees for the regeneration and preservation of the Ajloun natural landscape may 
be carried out by the specialized teams of the Ministry of Agriculture under force account 
arrangements. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
-11- 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality Based Selection (Firms) 
(b) Fixed Budget Selection (Firms) 
(c) Least Cost Selection (Firms) 
(d) Single Source (Firms) 
(e) Individual Consultants 
(f) Sole Source (Individual Consultants) 
3. 
Single Source. A Single Source contract may be entered into with the 
Borrower’s Royal Society for Conservation of Nature (RSCN) for the design and 
supervision of the Ajloun landscape regeneration works. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
2. 
Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 (two 
hundred thousand dollars) equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to 
-12- 
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of Loan 
Allocated In U.S. 
Dollars  
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) Works 
 
 
(a) Works under  Parts 1 and 3 of 
the Project 
39,890,000 
85% 
(b) Works under Part 2 of the 
Project (Petra Gateway) 
4,250,000 
85% 
(2) Goods  
170,000 
100% of foreign expenditures; 100% 
of local expenditures (ex-factory 
cost), and 90% of local expenditures 
for other items procured locally. 
(3) Consultant Services and Training 
5,190,000 
90% for firms within territory of the 
Borrower; 95% for services of 
individual consultants within 
territory of the Borrower; and 100% 
of foreign expenditures. 
(4) Grants for Local Economic   
Development 
1,000,000 
100% 
(5) Grants for Salt Heritage Fund 
500,000 
100% 
(6) Operating Costs 
150,000 
90% 
(7) Front End Fee 
0
Amount due under Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement 
Unallocated 
4,850,000 
  
Total 
56,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
-13- 
(a) 
for expenditures incurred prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 (five million dollars) 
equivalent may be made for expenditures incurred prior to this date but on or after  
March 1, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1(a)), (2), and (3); 
(b) 
for expenditures under Category 1(b), until the Borrower has provided 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank, showing that (i) the Petra Archaeological Park is under 
the sole jurisdiction of the Department of Antiquities; (ii) the Petra Archaeological Park 
is managed by a dedicated entity (the Petra Management Entity) operating under 
oversight of the Department of Antiquities; and (iii) that the Petra Management Entity 
has been allocated a secure, predictable and  sufficient operation and maintenance budget 
funded through earmarking a share of the Petra gate revenues; 
(c) 
for expenditures under Category (4) until the Borrower has developed 
and adopted eligibility criteria, a selection process for recipients, and terms and 
conditions for Grants, all satisfactory to the Bank, such terms and conditions to include, 
without limitation, MOTA’s obligation to enter into a Grant agreement with each Grant 
recipient pursuant to which said recipient shall provide MOTA with periodic financial 
statements audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(d) 
for expenditures under Category (5) until the Borrower has provided 
documentation, satisfactory to the Bank, evidencing that: (i) the Salt Heritage Fund has 
been established; (ii) the Salt Heritage Fund has developed and adopted a selection 
process, eligibility criteria for recipients, and terms and conditions for Grants (which 
shall include a condition pursuant to which each Grant recipient shall provide the Salt 
Heritage Fund with periodic financial statements audited by independent auditors 
satisfactory to the Bank), all previously approved by the Borrower and satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (iii) MOTA has  entered into an agreement with the Salt Heritage Fund 
obligating the Salt Heritage Fund to make Grants to recipients under Grant agreements 
which shall include the terms and conditions referred to in (ii) of this sub-paragraph (d).  
2
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures under the Project 
incurred by MOTA in relation to the maintenance of vehicles and equipment, fuel, utility 
charges, office supplies, office support, communications and local transport costs, but 
excluding salaries of civil servants of the Borrower. 
-14- 
3. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2012. 
-15- 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2012 through April 15, 
2023  
 
4.17 % 
On October 15, 2023  
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
-16- 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at 
any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or 
after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
-17- 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“Department of Antiquities” means the Borrower’s Department of Antiquities 
reporting to the Minister in charge of Tourism and Antiquities. 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, prepared in 
respect of environmental management, including management of cultural 
property, under the Project and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
dated November 30, 2006, as the same may be amended from time to time.  
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
6. 
“Grant” means a Grant to be made for the purposes of carrying out activities 
under either (i) Part 3 of the Project for local economic development or (ii) Part 1 
of the Project under the Salt Heritage Fund. 
7. 
“MOMA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Municipal Affairs, or any successor 
thereto. 
8. 
“MOPIC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and International 
Cooperation, or any successor thereto. 
9. 
“MOTA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, or any 
successor thereto. 
10. 
“Municipal Revitalization Pact ” means each of the following pacts:  
(a) 
the pact entered into between the Borrower (through MOPIC, MOMA 
and MOTA) and the Municipality of Ajloun dated July 23, 2006, and 
relating, among other matters to the carrying out of Parts 1, 3 and 4 of 
the Project; 
(b) 
the pact entered into between the Borrower (through MOPIC, MOMA 
and MOTA) and the Municipality of Jerash dated July 23, 2006, and 
relating, among other matters to the carrying out of Parts 1, 3 and 4 of 
the Project;  
-18- 
(c) 
the pact entered into between the Borrower (through MOPIC, MOMA 
and MOTA)  and the Municipality of Karak dated July 23, 2006 and 
relating, among other matters to the carrying out of Parts 1, 3 and 4 of 
the Project;  
(d) 
the pact entered into between the Borrower (through MOPIC, MOMA 
and MOTA) and the Municipality of Madaba dated July 23, 2006, and 
relating, among other matters to the carrying out of Parts 1, 3 and 4 of 
the Project; and 
(e) 
the pact entered into between the Borrower (through MOPIC, MOMA 
and MOTA) and the Municipality of Salt dated July 23, 2006 and 
relating, among other matters to the carrying out of Parts 1, 3 and 4 of 
the Project. 
11. 
“Petra” and “Petra Archaeological Park” mean the World Heritage 
Archaeological Site of Petra. 
12. 
“Petra Management Entity” means the unit within the Department of Antiquities 
responsible for the management of Petra. 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004.  
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 18, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
15. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan prepared 
by the Borrower’s Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities and submitted to the 
Bank on December 18, 2006, setting out the principles and procedures governing 
the implementation of the Project. 
16. 
“Project Municipalities” means each of the municipalities of Ajloun, Jerash, 
Karak, Madaba and Salt. 
17. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means the Borrower’s Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Action Plans dated November 30, 2006, prepared by the 
Municipalities of Jerash, Karak and Salt and approved by the Bank, setting forth, 
inter 
alia,
the 
compensation 
entitlement, 
institutional 
arrangements, 
implementation program, monitoring mechanism and cost estimates for the 
resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the implementation of the 
Project, disclosed locally and through the Bank’s Info Shop. 
-19- 
18. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s policy adopted on 
November 30, 2006, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth rules, procedures and 
guidelines for: (i) the acquisition of land and/or other assets from displaced 
persons; (ii) resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons and the 
compensation thereof; and (iii) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said policy, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the prior agreement of the Bank. For the purposes of this definition the term 
“displaced persons” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by : (i) the involuntary taking of land resulting in : (a) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (b) loss of assets or access to assets; or (c) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction to access legally designated parks and protected 
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person. 
19. 
“Royal Society for Conservation of Nature” means the Royal Society for 
Conservation of Nature, a non-governmental organization, (NGO) registered with 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior.   
20. 
“Salt Heritage Fund” means the fund to be established by the Municipality of 
Salt for the purpose of preserving its built-up cultural heritage. 
21. 
“Technical Development Department” mean the Technical Development 
Department of the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities responsible for overall 
implementation, procurement, financial management activities, and preparation 
of 
Project 
reports 
under 
the 
Project.
 
