CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4868-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Power Transmission Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 9, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4868-UA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 9, 2007, between UKRAINE (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1%) of 
the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower, through the MFE, shall cause the Project to 
be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through the MFE and the Project Implementing Entity, shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Energy Program adopted by the Borrower has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in a manner that materially and 
adversely affects the implementation of the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: that any event 
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and 
is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by 
the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Bank and the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
 
3
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, 
through the MOF, MFE and NERC, and the Project Implementing 
Entity. 
 
(c)  
The Project Implementing Entity has selected a procurement and 
Project management consultant for the PIU under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized by the Project 
Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower, 
represented by the MOF, MFE, and NERC, and the Project Implementing Entity and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
5.04. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties 
hereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General Conditions. 
Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 
Kyiv, 01008 
 
Ukraine 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
131450  
 
(380-44) 207-0504 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
4
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By /s/ Yuriy Boyko 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Paul Bermingham 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the security, reliability, 
efficiency and quality of power supply through the rehabilitation of transmission 
substations and the strengthening of the power transmission network; and (b) to improve 
the institutional capacity and technical capabilities of the Project Implementing Entity to 
ensure a secure and reliable operation of the high voltage power grid and facilitate the 
unimpeded operation and opening up of the electricity market. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A
Rehabilitation of transmission substations
Replacing outdated high voltage equipment and installation of modern protective relaying 
and substation automation systems in selected high voltage transmission substations.  
 
Part B
Strengthening of transmission network
Expanding the existing 330 kV Bar substation and construction of the transmission line to 
connect the Bar substation with the Dniester Hydropower Pumped-Storage Plant. 
 
Part C
Stabilization of the Crimea Electric Power Grid
Upgrading of the existing 220 kV Simferopol - Sebastopol transmission line and 
associated substations to the 330 kV voltage level and upgrading of the substation control 
system at selected transmission substations in the Crimea electric power grid. 
 
Part D
Institutional development
Establishing a corporate-wide Management Information System (MIS) in the Project 
Implementing Entity and providing technical assistance to the Project Implementing 
Entity in: (a) capacity building in procurement and project management; (b) designing 
and implementing corporate-wide MIS; and (c) annual auditing of project and company 
accounts. 
 
Part E
Implementation of the Grid Code
Providing technical assistance to the Project Implementing Entity for the implementation 
of the Grid Code and related regulations and norms of the Wholesale Electricity Market.
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
MFE responsible for the overall oversight of the Project
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall ensure that the appropriate departments in 
the MFE, with the assistance of the Project Implementing Entity, oversee the 
overall Project implementation and management with due diligence and 
efficiency. 
2. 
Project 
Implementing 
Entity 
responsible 
for 
the 
overall 
day-to-day 
implementation and management of the Project
The Project Implementing Entity shall be responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the Project, including consolidated financial and procurement 
management and other Project-related tasks. To this effect the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a Project Implementing Unit 
under terms and with staffing satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s 
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Borrower, through the MOF, MFE, NERC, and the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which 
shall include provisions setting forth that the Project Implementing Entity shall 
be responsible for the overall day-to-day implementation and management of the 
Project (“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
2. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, MFE and NERC, shall exercise its rights under 
the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
7
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
Environmental Safeguard
(a)  
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall ensure that all measures necessary 
for the carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a 
timely manner and that all legal and administrative planning and environmental 
permits and authorizations necessary to carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project 
are secured in a timely manner and with due diligence. 
(b)  
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to take all measures necessary and identified under the Environmental 
Management Plan at all times in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate 
information on the implementation of said measures is suitably included in the 
Project progress reports to be prepared pursuant to the provisions of Section II.B 
of this Schedule. 
2. 
Land Acquisition for Part B of the Project
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall: 
 
(a) 
 notify the Bank or cause the Project Implementing Entity to notify the 
Bank of any intended acquisition of land for the purposes of the Project, in whole 
or in part, of the following: residences, agricultural holdings, commercial 
structures and businesses; and/or land used by people without claim to legal title; 
 
(b) 
disclose or cause the Project Implementing Entity to disclose the Land 
Acquisition Framework and the Information Brochure in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank no less than sixty (60) days prior to carrying out any land acquisition 
activities under the Project; and 
 
(c) 
 ensure or cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that all land 
acquisition under the Project shall be undertaken in accordance with the Land 
Acquisition Framework, and the Information Brochure shall be sent to all 
affected persons at the onset thereof along with the notice of expropriation. 
 
D. 
Energy Program 
 
1. 
At the national level, the Borrower shall maintain throughout the implementation 
of the Project, a high-level CESRD which shall act as a body responsible for the 
strategic coordination and oversight of the Energy Program, and of Project 
activities implemented, by the entities participating in the Project, all under terms 
of reference and a composition satisfactory to the Bank.  
8
2. 
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower, through the MFE, 
shall ensure that the EPCU shall assist the CESRD and MFE under terms and 
with staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MFE, NERC and the Project Implementing Entity, 
shall prepare and start implementing by not later than December 31, 2009 a Grid 
Code in accordance with international standards and best practices. 
E. 
Budgetary Arrangements 
Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  
ensure that from Fiscal Year 2008 and onwords, the NERC shall 
establish and maintain tariffs for the Project Implementing Entity sufficient to 
cover Project co-financing and debt servicing needs in a timely manner;  
 
(b)  
cause Energomarket to distribute funds due from Energomarket to the 
Project Implementing Entity in a timely manner; and  
 
(c)  
ensure that the NERC introduces by December 31, 2009 a system service 
charge to be paid to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with 
principles adopted by the NERC for procurement of ancillary (power system) 
services in the Wholesale Electricity Market. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A.  
Midterm Review 
 
1. 
Not later than March 31, 2010, the Borrower, through the MOE, MFE and the 
Project Implementing Entity jointly, shall carry out together with the Bank, a 
midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter 
referred to as the Midterm Review). 
 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
 
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MFE and the Project Implementing Entity, shall 
prepare, and at least three (3) month prior to the Mid-term Review, furnish to the 
Bank, a separate report describing the status of implementation of each 
component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally (the “Mid-term Report”). 
9
B. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MFE and NERC, shall monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
prepare a report annually on or about June 30, beginning on June 30, 2008, for 
each year during project implementation containing financial projections and 
projections of Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, under terms 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the upcoming year to be reviewed by the Bank. 
 
C. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
maintain a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, starting with the 
calendar quarter in which first withdrawal under the Project occurs. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
have the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year, commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made.  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
4. 
Financial Management Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through the MFE, shall take, and cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to take, all actions required to ensure that the 
10
Financial Management Manual is applied and followed at all times in the 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that 
it does not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financial Management 
Manual or any provision thereof. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Shopping for goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract 
 
(b) Direct Contracting 
 
11
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Fixed –Budget Selection  
 
(b) Quality Based Selection 
 
(c) Consultant Qualification for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
per contract 
 
(d) Least Cost Selection 
 
(e) Single and Sole Source Selection 
 
(f) Individual Consultant 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; each contract for goods 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, or Direct Contracting and the 
first contract for goods procured on the basis of Shopping; (b) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more and each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (c) the first contract for goods and services 
to be procured on the basis of each applicable procurement method. All other contracts 
shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
12
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 100% (inclusive of Taxes) 
of Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods,  
 
195,000,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Consultants’ services, 
 
including auditing 
 
services, and training 
 
for  the Project 
 
5,000,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
                  
0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
 
13
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to: (a) maintain a debt 
service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 during the Project implementation period; (b) 
maintain a current ratio of at least 1.2 during the Project implementation period; and (c) 
carry out revaluation of its assets in accordance with terms of reference and consultants 
satisfactory to the Bank by June 30, 2009. 
 
2. 
For purposes of paragraph 1 above: 
 
(a) 
the term “current ratio” means a ratio of current assets to current 
liabilities where: 
 
(i)  
Current assets means cash and all assets which could in the 
ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to 
operating expenses within the fiscal year. 
 
(ii) 
Current liabilities means all liabilities which will become due 
and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called 
for payment within tweleve months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
 
(b)  
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Project Implementing 
Entity. 
 
(c) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into; and 
 
(d) 
the term " debt service coverage ratio" means the aggregate of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt. 
 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in _Dollars∗)
On March 15, 2013 
 
4,285,000 
On September 15, 2013 
 
4,410,000 
On March 15, 2014 
 
4,535,000 
On September 15, 2014 
 
4,665,000 
On March 15, 2015 
 
4,800,000 
On September 15, 2015 
 
4,940,000 
On March 15, 2016 
 
5,080,000 
On September 15, 2016 
 
5,230,000 
On March 15, 2017 
 
5,380,000 
On September 15, 2017 
 
5,535,000 
On March 15, 2018 
 
5,695,000 
On September 15, 2018 
 
5,860,000 
On March 15, 2019 
 
6,025,000 
On September 15, 2019 
 
6,200,000 
On March 15, 2020 
 
6,380,000 
On September 15, 2020 
 
6,560,000 
On March 15, 2021 
 
6,750,000 
On September 21, 2021 
 
6,945,000 
On March 15, 2022 
 
7,145,000 
On September 15, 2022 
 
7,350,000 
On March 15, 2023 
 
7,565,000 
On September 15, 2023 
 
7,780,000 
On March 15, 2024 
 
8,005,000 
On September 15, 2024 
 
8,235,000 
On March 15, 2025 
 
8,475,000 
On September 15, 2025 
 
8,715,000 
On March 15, 2026 
 
8,970,000 
On September 15, 2026 
 
9,225,000 
On March 15, 2027 
 
9,490,000 
On September 15, 2027 
 
9,770,000 
TOTAL 
 
200,000,000 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
15
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Commission for Energy Sector Reform and Development” or “CESRD” means 
the Borrower’s Commission for Energy Sector Reform and Development 
established pursuant to the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 1091, dated 
August 25, 2004 and responsible for coordinating and supervising the 
implementation of the conceptual plan for legal and technical harmonization of 
the Borrower’s energy sector with the European Union Internal Energy Market, 
including the overall monitoring of the investment projects and technical 
assistance under the Project; or its legal successor thereof. 
3. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, as 
updated on October 2006.  
4. 
“Energomarket” means the State Enterprise “Energorinok” established pursuant 
to the Decree No. 755 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, dated May 5, 2000. 
5. 
“Energy Program” means the Borrower’s program for energy sector reform and 
development based on the Comprehensive Action Plan for Financial Stabilization 
of Energy Sector Enterprise adopted by the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers 
No. 167 dated May 28, 2005; and the Action Plan for Energy Sector Reform and 
Development adopted by the Edict of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 408-p dated 
June 13, 2007. 
 
6. 
“Energy Program Coordination Unit’ or “EPCU” means the Borrower’s Energy 
Program Coordination Unit established by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and 
responsible for: (a) preparing and updating a conceptual plan for legal and 
technical harmonization of the Borrower’s energy sector with the European 
Union Internal Energy Market; (b) developing a program of priority investments 
and technical assistance in the energy sector; or its legal successor thereof. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Environmental 
Management Plan dated January 11, 2007 describing the environmental 
mitigation measures anticipated for investments under the Project and parties 
responsible for monitoring of construction and operational impacts.  
 
8. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual prepared by the Project 
Implementing Entity and dated April 10, 2007, including fiduciary financial 
16
management, reporting and auditing provisions for the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
9. 
“Fiscal Year” means the period starting from January 1 to December 31. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
11. 
“Grid Code” means the code which sets out the principles and procedures 
governing the technical and operational relationship between the transmission 
operator and all parties connected to and using the transmission system, including 
planning and development of the transmission system, technical and operational 
conditions for connecting the network and power system operations rules. 
 
12. 
“Land Acquisition Framework” means the framework document prepared by the 
Project Implementing Entity and dated January 11, 2007, describing the 
mitigation and compensation measures anticipated and consultation and 
information processes to be followed in the event of land acquisition for the 
purpose of Part B of the Project  under terms satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
13. 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or 
its legal successor thereof. 
 
14. 
 “Ministry of Fuel and Energy“ or “MFE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Fuel 
and Energy, or its legal successor thereof. 
 
15. 
“Ministry of Economy” or “MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, 
or its legal successor thereof. 
 
16. 
“National Electricity Regulatory Commission” or “NERC” means the Borrower’s 
National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine established pursuant to 
the Decree of the President No. 738/94 dated December 8, 1994; or its legal 
successor thereof. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, as updated on 
October, 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 17, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the State Enterprise National Power 
Company Ukrenergo (“Ukrenergo”), established pursuant to the Decree No. 54 
17
of the Ministry of Energy dated April 16, 1998 and Statutes dated February 27, 
2007 registered at the State Administration of Schevchenko on March 3, 2007. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the Project implementation unit 
established within the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the Order of the 
Director of the Project Implementing Entity No. 167, dated April 10, 2007; or its 
legal successor thereof. 
 
21. 
 “Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Commercial Code of 
Ukraine No. 436-IV, dated January 16, 2003 and the Law of Ukraine on 
Electricity Sector No. 575/97-VR dated October 16, 1997. 
 
22. 
“Project Implementing Entity Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the 
indicators referred to in Part B.1 of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Part B of Section I 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
24. 
“Wholesale Electricity Market” means organizational, legal and regulatory 
principles governing the wholesale of electric power as defined in the Cabinet of 
Ministers Resolution No. 1789 dated November 16, 2002. 
 
