CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7474-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Lifelong Learning and Training Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 26, 2007 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7474-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 26, 2007, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
 
-2- 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower, shall, through the Ministry of Labor, carry out: 
 
(a) 
Parts A.1. (a) and (b), and A.3 of the Project with the assistance of Sector 
Organizations; 
 
(b) 
Part A.2. (a) of the Project with the assistance of the Sector Organizations and the 
IFPs as the case may be; 
 
(c) 
Part B.1. of the Project with the assistance of the Participating Provinces; 
 
(d) 
Part B.2 of the Project with the assistance of the Adult Education Public/Private 
Entities; 
 
(e) 
Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project with the assistance of the Participating 
Municipalities; and 
 
(f) 
Part C.3 of the Project with the assistance of the Internship Employers and 
Participating Municipalities, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions. 
-3- 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
That any Executing Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its 
Framework Agreement and/or any of its Protocols or its Implementation Agreement, as 
the case may be, and the Borrower shall have failed to exercise its remedies under such 
Framework Agreements, Protocols or Implementation Agreements, in which case the 
Bank may only suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred as payments to or for the 
benefit of the relevant Executing Entity. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs for all Executing Entities 
and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event for the last of the 
affected Executing Entities has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expires on December 
29, 2008.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Production.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
C1086AAB, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
121942-AR 
 
(54 11) 4349-8815 
 
-4- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Miguel Peirano 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ PedroAlba 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to consolidate, strengthen, and increase the coverage of a 
lifelong learning and competency-based training system for adults 18 years or older with the 
objectives for those who participate of: (a) enhancing employability; and (b) strengthening career 
ladder opportunities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Expansion and Strengthening of Competency-based Training and Certification
1. 
Establishment of Competency-based Certification Systems
(a) 
Carrying out of Competency Normalization Activities consisting of: 
 
(i) 
development of occupational competency-based standards of the CNA 
Key Sectors and registration of such standards in REGICE;  
 
(ii) 
training and certification of evaluators; and 
 
(iii) 
registration of Assessment Centers. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of  analysis and promotional activities on the CNAs, training of 
sector experts on the new competencies, and provision of equipment and supplies 
to Certification Organizations and Assessment Centers. 
 
(c) 
Registration and accreditation of Certification Organizations. 
 
2. 
Alignment of Training with Competency-based Approach and Strengthening of IFPs
(a) 
Carrying out of Curricular Alignment Activities consisting of development and 
publication of curricular designs and didactic materials needed to align training 
with the occupational standards registered under Part A.1 (a) of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Training of selected staff of IFPs in the competency-based approach referred to 
in Part A.1 (a) above, and provision of equipment and other technical assistance 
as required to implement the competency-based approach. 
 
(c) 
Certification of IFPs. 
 
3. 
Training, Assessment and Certification of Workers
Training about 250,000 workers in selected competencies of their occupations through 
courses developed on standards competencies relevant to such occupations, assessment of the 
competencies of about 100,000 workers, and certification of about 70,000 workers of those 
assessed. 
-6- 
 
Part B: Basic Education Services and Certification for Adults
1. 
Development of Adult Education Policies and Programs, and Quality Improvement and 
Coverage Expansion of Adult Education Services in the Participating Provinces
(a) 
Development of methodologies to make the supply of adult education more flexible 
with respect to scheduling and curricular content, modular and competency-based, 
and recognizing and crediting of previous knowledge independent of its source. 
 
(b) 
Publication of didactic materials as required for dissemination and application of 
the methodologies developed under Part B.1 (a) above. 
 
(c) 
Training of adult education instructors in innovative service deliveries 
methodologies (including those in Part B.1 (a) above). 
 
(d) 
Carrying out of Adult Education Activities consisting of delivery of basic or 
secondary education services to adults. 
 
(e) 
Carrying out of workshops with relevant stakeholders to define curricula of 
vocational training to supplement adult education. 
 
(f) 
Carrying out of outreach activities to promote adult education and facilitate access 
to such education. 
 
(g) 
Strengthening the capacity of adult education institutions in the management of 
their resources and the service delivery information. 
 
2. 
Adult Education Subprojects
Carrying out of selected activities of those set forth in Part B.1 (a) through (g) of the 
Project (the Adult Education Subprojects). 
 
3. 
Monitoring
Monitoring of the activities carried out under Parts B.1 and B.2 above. 
 
Part C: Promotion of Youth Employment
1. 
Employment and Career Orientation for Youth
(a) 
Strengthening the capacity of Participating Municipalities’ employment offices 
to: (i) provide orientation and counseling services to Youth who have not 
completed secondary education on education and training possibilities under the 
Project; (ii) inform employers about the Youth Internship Subprojects to be 
carried out under the Project; and (iii) assist Internship employers in the 
preparation of Youth Internship Subprojects, including the provision of 
consultants’ services, training (including interviewing skills, counseling and 
relations with employers), office refurbishing, and equipment. 
-7- 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of outreach programs to disseminate: (i) at the national; and (ii) at 
the municipal level, the activities under Part C.1 (a) above. 
 
2. 
Facilitating Training and/or Education Opportunities for Youth
(a) 
Development of: (i) competency-based training and standards for basic skills for 
Youth as well as; (ii) courses and manuals and materials related to Part 2 (a) (i) 
above; 
 
(b) 
training of teachers teaching Youth; and 
 
(c) 
training and assessment of Youth on basic skills and other relevant competencies. 
 
3. 
Internships for Youth
(a) 
Carrying out of activities related to the placement of Youth, including internships, 
on the job and classroom training, and assessment and certification of 
competencies (the Youth Internship Subprojects). 
 
(b) 
Training of tutors involved in Youth Internships Subprojects and monitoring of 
the implementation of the Youth Internship Subprojects. 
 
Part D: Management and Information System, Project Management and Studies
1. 
Integrated Management Systems
Installation of an integrated management and information system in the Ministry of 
Labor, including office refurbishing, and training required therefor. 
 
2. 
Project Management
(a) 
Operation of the TCU. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of households surveys, impact evaluations, and studies proposed by 
the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank, including one related to the 
development of a long-term strategy for a lifelong learning system in Argentina 
and the financing requirements and sources therefor. 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall not later than two months after the Effective Date establish, and 
thereafter maintain, during the execution of the Project, within the Secretariat of 
Employment of the Ministry of Labor, a technical coordination unit (TCU) to manage 
Project implementation on behalf of the Ministry of Labor with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts 
and other personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Labor, monitor the implementation of the 
CNAs, the CAAs, and the AEAs, on a periodic basis, all under terms acceptable to the 
Bank.  
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall: (i) review, through the Ministry of Labor, jointly with the 
Bank and not later than: (I) 12 months after the Effective Date and yearly 
thereafter, the amounts to be paid for the fees referred to in Section IV. A.2 (c) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (II) 24 months after the Effective Date the 
CNA Eligible Costs, the CAA Eligible Costs, the AEA Eligible Costs, and the 
Unit Costs; and (ii) adjust them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.  
 
(b) 
 Without limitation to the provisions of subparagraph (a) the Borrower may, 
 through the Ministry of Labor, propose to the Bank additional reviews of the 
 CNA Eligible Costs, the CAA Eligible Costs, the AEA Eligible Costs and the 
 Unit Costs earlier or later than as set forth in such subparagraph and, after such 
 reviews, adjust them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall, through the Ministry of Labor, carry out the Project in accordance with an 
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia:
(a) 
the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of the 
TCU responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for CNA, CAA and AEA 
implementation, the CNA Eligible Costs, the CAA Eligible Costs, the AEA 
Eligible Costs, and the Unit Costs; 
 
(c) 
procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for financial 
management and audits of the Project (including the special audits referred to in 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement); 
 
(d) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 
 
-9- 
 
(e) 
draft models for the Framework Agreements, (including their Protocols) and 
Implementation Agreements;  
 
(f) 
flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds, including the 
reimbursement mechanisms of the CNA Eligible Costs, CAA Eligible Costs, and 
AEA Eligible Costs based on Unit Costs;  
 
(g) 
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and 
 
(h) 
the criteria for the selection, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of Adult 
Education Subprojects and Youth Internship Subprojects (including the financing 
of Stipends). 
 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Labor, enter into:  
 
(a) 
a one year term agreement or agreements, under terms substantially in 
accordance with the terms of the respective Model Framework Agreement, in 
respect of Parts A.1, A.2 (a) and A.3 of the Project with each Sector 
Organizations to set forth the respective responsibilities of the Ministry of Labor 
and the Sector Organization in the implementation of Parts A.1, A.2 (a) and A.3 
of the Project as the case maybe, including, inter alia:
(i) 
the Sector Organization’s obligation to: (I) identify and select the 
Certification Organizations and Assessment Centers, and pay to the 
Certification Organizations and Assessment Centers the fees charged for 
certifications and assessments; (II) carry out the CNAs and CAAs; (III) 
establish Technical Units and contract the analysis and other activities 
referred to in Part A.1 (b) of the Project; (IV) follow the financial 
management requirements of the Project; (V) enter into, by not later than 
three months from the date of the Framework Agreement, a protocol 
setting forth the specific activities to be carried out during the term of the 
Protocol; (VI) comply with a time-bound action plan and other 
obligations specified in the Protocol; and (VII) in respect of Part A.2 (a) 
of the Project engage its training institutes or training staff to assist in the 
implementation of the CAA; and 
 
(ii) 
the Ministry of Labor’s obligation to make the proceeds of the Loan 
available for the financing of the CNAs and CAAs;  
 
(b) 
a one year term agreement or agreements, under terms substantially in 
accordance with the terms of the respective Model Implementation Agreement, 
in respect of Part A.2 (a) of the Project with each IFP to set forth the respective 
responsibilities of the Ministry of Labor and the IFP in the implementation of 
Parts A.2 (a) of the Project, including, inter alia, the IFP’s obligation to: (i) carry 
out the CNAs; and (ii) comply mutatis mutandi with the requirements set forth in 
Section I. 5 (a) (i) (IV) and (VI) of this Schedule. 
-10- 
 
(c) 
a two year term agreement or agreements, under terms substantially in 
accordance with the terms of the respective Model Framework Agreement, in 
respect of Part B.1 of the Project with each Participating Province to set forth the 
respective responsibilities of the Ministry of Labor and the Participating Province 
in the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project, including, inter alia:
(i) 
the Participating Province’s obligation to: (I) carry out Part B of the 
Project; (II) enter into, by not later than nine months from the date of the 
Framework Agreement, a protocol, and subsequent ones if needed, 
setting forth the specific activities to be carried out during the term of the 
Protocol; (III) comply with a time-bound action plan and meet the 
indicators and other obligations specified in the Protocol; (IV) in the case 
of IPPF Entities comply with the requirements of the IPPF and carry out 
the IPPs when applicable; and (V) finance out of its own resources in 
whole or in part the portion of the Unit Costs of the AEAs not financed 
by the Loan as AEA Eligible Costs, as set forth in the Operational 
Manual; and 
 
(ii) 
the Ministry of Labor’s obligation to: (I) make available the proceeds of 
the Loan to finance the AEAs and consultants’ services for Part B.1 (a) 
of the Project; and (II) contract and finance the publications and 
monitoring under Parts B.1 (b) and (e) of the Project, and the teacher 
training under Part B.1 (c) of the Project; 
 
(d) 
a two-year term agreement or agreements, under terms substantially in 
accordance with the terms of the respective Model Implementation Agreement, 
in respect of Part B.2 of the Project with each Adult Education Public/Private 
Entity to set forth the respective responsibilities of the Ministry of Labor and the 
Adult Education Public/Private Entity in the implementation of Part B.2 of the 
Project, including, inter alia:
(i)  
the Adult Education Public/Private Entity’s obligation to:   (I) carry out 
the Adult Education Subprojects; (II) comply with a time-bound action 
plan and meet the indicators and other obligations specified in the 
Implementation Agreement; (III) in the case of IPPF Entities comply 
with the requirements of the IPPF and carry out the IPPs when 
applicable; and (IV) finance out of its own resources in whole or in part 
the portion of the Unit Costs of the AEAs not financed by the Loan as 
AEA Eligible Costs, as set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(ii) 
The Ministry of Labor’s obligations to pay out of Loan proceeds the 
eligible costs of the Adult Education Subprojects; 
 
(e) 
a two-year term agreement or agreements, under terms substantially in 
accordance with the terms of the respective Model Framework Agreement, in 
respect of Part C.1 and, as the case may be, Part C.2 of the Project with each 
Participating Municipality to set forth the respective responsibilities of the 
-11- 
 
Ministry of Labor and the Participating Municipality in the implementation of 
Part C of the Project, including, inter alia:
(i) 
the Municipality’s obligation to: (I) carry out Parts C.1 and C.2 of the 
Project and provide Youth with training and employment services and 
meet the indicated results; (II) follow the financial management 
requirements of the Project; (III) enter into, by not later than nine months 
from the date of the Framework Agreement, a protocol, and subsequent 
ones if needed setting forth the specific activities to be carried out during 
the term of the Protocol; (IV) comply with a time-bound action plan and 
other obligations specified in the Protocol; and (V) in the case of IPPF 
Entities comply with the requirements of the IPPF and carry out the IPPs 
when applicable; and 
 
(ii) 
the Ministry of Labor’s obligation to make the proceeds of the Loan 
available for the financing of Part C.1 and as the case maybe C.2 of the 
Project to the Participating Municipalities; and  
 
(f)  
a two-year term agreement or agreements, under terms substantially in 
accordance with the terms of the respective Model Framework Agreement, in 
respect of Part C.3 of the Project, with each Participating Municipality and each 
Internship Employer to set forth the respective responsibilities of the Ministry of 
Labor, the Participating Municipality and the Internship Employer in the 
implementation of the Youth Internship Subprojects under Part C.3 of the 
Project, including inter alia:
(i) 
the Internship Employer’s obligation to: (I) carry out at least one Youth 
Internship Subproject per year; (II) finance part of the cost of training 
and the remuneration of the interns participating in the Youth Internship 
Subproject; (III) follow the financial management requirements of the 
Project; (IV) enter into, by not later than three months from the date of 
the Framework Agreement and 12 months thereafter, protocols setting 
forth the specific activities to be carried out during the term of the 
Protocol; and (V) assign a tutor to monitor the implementation of the 
Youth Internship Subproject;  
 
(ii) 
the Participating Municipality’s obligation to: (I) promote activities for 
Youth in education and training; and (II) assist the Youth with 
employment possibilities  as needed after implementation of the Youth 
Internship Subproject; and  
 
(iii) 
the Ministry of Labor’s obligation to finance the Stipends and part of the 
training costs as identified in the Operational Manual.  
-12- 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Framework 
Agreement,  Protocol,  and  Implementation Agreement in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan; and 
 
(b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Framework Agreement or Protocol or 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one month after the 
end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the requirements of paragraph (a) above, the audit of the 
Financial Statements shall include an opinion as to the compliance with relevant 
regulations of the validation of certifications by the Borrower’s National 
Directorate of Orientation and Professional Training. 
 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Non-Consultants’ Services and Works.
All goods, non-consultants’ services and 
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
-13- 
 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultants’ Services and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods, Non-Consultants Services and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultants’ Services and Works. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consultants’ services and works.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be 
used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Quality-based Selection 
(c) Single Source Selection 
-14- 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Special Provisions
The following special procurement provisions shall apply to procurement under the 
Project: 
 
(a) 
procurement of goods, works and non-consultant services shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of 
goods, works and non-consultant services; 
 
(c) 
after the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations 
concerning awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other 
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract 
award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant 
Guidelines); 
 
(d) 
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a 
representative in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine 
suppliers, contractors or consultants; 
 
(e) 
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions of interest and the evaluation reports of bids and proposals of all 
goods, works, non-consultant services and consultants’ services, as the case may 
be, shall be published in the web page of the Borrower’s Office of National 
Procurement (Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones); 
 
(f) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49 through 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and non 
consultant services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding 
procedures; 
 
(g) 
the publication of bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used 
by the Borrower in determining if the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry 
out the contract as offered in the bid, as referred to in the provisions set forth in 
paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. The provision set forth in 
paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation set forth 
herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and non-consultant services 
to be procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures; 
 
-15- 
 
(h) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be the only type of contracts to be used by the Borrower in connection with the 
contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with 
the proceeds of the Loan; 
 
(i) 
the Borrower shall: (i) feed the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans 
Execution System (SEPA) within 30 days of negotiations with the information 
contained in the initial Procurement Plan; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at 
least biannually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs 
and progress, and feed the SEPA with the information contained in the updated 
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; and 
 
(j) 
the Borrower shall include in the reports referred to in paragraph B.2 of Section 
II of this Schedule, the list of signed contracts for works, goods, non-consultant 
services and consultants’ services under the Project as reflected in the Borrower’s 
financial management system (UEPEX) during the period covered by each of 
said reports.  
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
-16- 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Consultants’ services, non-
consultants’ services, works and 
goods (other than for CNAs, CAAs, 
AEAs,  Adult Education Subprojects 
and Youth Internship Subprojects) 
 
69,100,000 
100% 
(2) CNAs, CAAs and AEAs 
 
14,800,000 
100% of the Unit Costs of the 
CNA Eligible Costs, the CAA 
Eligible Costs and the AEA 
Eligible Costs paid to the 
respective Executing Entity as per 
the terms of the Framework 
Agreements or the Implementation 
Agreements as the case may be 
 
(3) Operating Costs 
 
4,500,000 
100% 
 
(4) Training 
 
4,200,000 
100% 
 
(5) Adult Education Subprojects: 
 
(a) AEAs 
 
(b) didactic and consumable 
 materials and consultants’ 
 services 
 
2,400,000 
 
4,000,000 
 
100% of the Unit Costs of the 
AEA Eligible Costs paid to the 
respective Adult Education Public 
Private Entity as per the terms of 
the Implementation Agreements 
 
100% 
(6) Fees 
 
58,000,000 
100% 
(7) Stipends under Youth Internship 
Subprojects 
 
43,000,000 
100% 
 
(8) Front-end Fee 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
 
(9) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 2.08 
(c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
200,000,000
-17- 
 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of recurrent expenditures 
of the Ministry of Labor and the Technical Units in Project implementation 
(excluding salaries) such as consumable items, utilities and supplies, and travel 
costs for supervision in the field, which would not have been incurred absent the 
Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “Training” means expenditures incurred by Ministry of Labor and the 
Participating Provinces to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem 
of trainees and trainers (if applicable), rental of training facilities, materials and 
equipment under the Project; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Fees” means the fees paid: (i) in the fixed amounts specified in the 
Operational Manual for training, assessments and certifications under Part A.3 of 
the Project; (ii) for certification of IFPs under Part A.2 (c) of the Project and 
accreditation of Certification Organizations under Part A.1 (c) of the Project, in 
the amounts regularly charged by the  agencies providing such certifications and 
accreditations; and (iii) in the fixed amounts specified in the Operational Manual 
for on the job and classroom training under Youth Employment Subprojects (Part 
C.3 (a) of the Project), and under Part C.2 (c) of the Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but on or 
after February 1, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures; or 
 
(b) 
under Category (7) for Stipends unless the Borrower shall have issued, and the 
Bank shall have approved, the specific requirements for implementation of the 
Youth Internship Subprojects. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
Section V.
Other Undertakings
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall contract, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
not later than twelve months from the Effective Date, and in the event that results 
of such first special audit show that the systems applications pose, in the Bank’s 
opinion, substantial risk to the implementation of the Project, within twelve 
months thereafter, a second special audit of the Ministry of Labor’s management 
information systems, including, inter alia:
(i) 
a professional opinion on the reliability of the information processes and 
the level of control of the system and the risks associated with the 
-18- 
 
information technology processes of the Ministry of Labor associated to 
the internal control of the monitoring of Project activities; and 
 
(ii) 
recommendations on any measures which would be required to ensure an 
acceptable level of reliability of such information system; and 
 
(b) 
not later than June 30 and December 31 of each fiscal year of the Borrower a 
special audit on: 
 
(i) 
the requests for payments and the financial reporting sent by Sector 
Organizations, Participating Provinces and Participating Municipalities 
and covering all activities to be executed by such Executing Entities 
according to the Protocols; 
 
(ii) 
the reliability of the quantity of outputs delivered; and 
 
(iii) 
the reliability of the internal control framework and reporting 
information. 
-19- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each January 1 and July 1 
 
Beginning July 1, 2012  
 
through January 1, 2022 
 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
-20- 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-21- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“A$” means Argentine pesos, the Borrower’s currency. 
2. 
“Accreditation Institution” means IRAM, CECAM or any other accreditation institution 
eligible to participate in the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
3. 
“Adult Education Activity” or “AEA” means any activity referred to in Part B.1 (d) of the 
Project which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan under Categories 
(2) or (5) (a) of the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in accordance 
with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
4. 
“Adult Education Public/Private Entity” means an association, trade union, civil society 
organizations, or other private entity that meets the requirements of the Operational 
Manual to participate in Part B.2 of the Project. 
5. 
“Adult Education Subproject” means a Subproject to be carried out under Part B.2 of the 
Project which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
6. 
“AEA Eligible Cost” means operating costs (teachers’ salaries) and materials and 
supplies of an AEA eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan on a Unit Cost 
basis in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
7. 
“Assessment Center”  means an individual or public or private organization, authorized 
by the Certification Organization of the relevant sector to carry out, in its name and as 
designated by it, activities for the design of instruments, collection of evidence and 
evaluation of competencies according to competency-based occupational standards. 
8. 
“CAA Eligible Cost” means consultants’ services and operating costs (per diem and 
materials related to attendance of workshops) of a CAA eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan on a Unit Cost basis in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual. 
9. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
10. 
“CECAM” means the Quality and Modernization Center of the Argentine Federation of 
Municipalities. 
11. 
“Certification Organization” means an organization legally established in the Borrower’s 
territory with powers to provide certificates of competencies to individuals and/or to 
accredit assessment centers which measure the skill levels attained by individuals in a 
competency. 
-22- 
 
12. 
“CNA” or “Competency Normalization Activity” means any activity referred to in Part 
A.1 (a) of the Project which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
13. 
“CNA Eligible Cost” means consultants’ services and operating costs (per diem and 
materials related to attendance of workshops) of a CNA eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan on a Unit Cost basis in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual. 
14. 
“CNA Key Sector” means a sector of the Borrower’s economy relevant to growth and the 
generation of formal employment selected by the Ministry of Labor. 
15. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
16. 
“Curricular Alignment Activity” or “CAA” means any activity referred to in Part A.2 of 
the Project that is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan on a Unit Cost 
basis in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
17. 
“Executing Entity” means collectively a Participating Province, a Participating 
Municipality, a Sector Organization, an IFP, an IPPF Entity, a Public/Private Adult 
Education Entity, and an Internship Employer. 
 
18. 
“Framework Agreement” means any of the agreements, other than Protocols, referred to 
in Section I.5 (a), (c), (e) and (f)  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
20. 
“IFP” means any training institute established and operating in the Borrower’s territory 
and eligible for participation in Part A.2 (a) of the Project. 
 
21. 
“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.5(b) 
and (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means any of the plans prepared and carried out 
following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework. 
 
23. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” or “IPPF” means the framework for 
preparation of Indigenous Peoples Plans by the relevant IPPF Entities as set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
24. 
“Internship Employer” means an employer which has proposed one or more Youth 
Internship Subprojects which have been approved by the Ministry of Labor, through its 
Secretary of Employment, according to the specific requirements for their 
implementation to be issued by the Borrower and referred to in paragraph B.1(b) of 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
-23- 
 
25. 
“IPPF Entity” means: (a) the Province of Tucumán, Mendoza and any other that is 
proposed as a Participating Province in the future, and meets the requirements of the 
IPPF to be deemed an IPPF Entity; (b) a Participating Municipality that meets the 
requirements of the IPPF to be deemed an IPPF Entity; and (c) an Adult Education 
Public/Private Entity which participates in Part B.2 of the Project and meets the 
requirements of the IPPF to be deemed an IPPF Entity. 
 
26. 
“IRAM”  means Instituto Argentino de Normalización y Certificación, the Borrower 
institute for standardization and certification, established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 121.430/1937. 
 
27. 
“Ministry of Labor” means Ministerio del Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security. 
 
28. 
“Model Framework Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in section I.4(e) 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
29. 
“Model Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.4(e) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
30. 
“Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s political subdivisions established and 
recognized as such by the respective Province. 
 
31. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual approved by the Bank on May 2, 2007, as the 
same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
 
32. 
“Participating Municipality” means a Municipality eligible for participating in Part  C of 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
33. 
“Participating Province” means any Province that has fulfilled the requirements of the 
Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual to be eligible to participate in Part B.1 of 
the Project. 
 
34. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
35. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated May 
2, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
36. 
“Protocol” means any of the agreements to be entered into pursuant to the provisions of 
Section I.5(a)(i)(V), (c)(i)(II), (e)(i)(III) and (f)(i)(IV) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
37. 
“Province” means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the 
Borrower’s Constitution, and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, and the term 
“Provinces” means all of said political subdivisions. 
 
-24- 
 
38. 
“REGICE” means Registro de Instituciones de Capacitación y Empleo, the Borrower’s 
register for training and employment institutions established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Resolution No. MTSS 578/96, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 26, 
1996. 
 
39. 
“Sector Organization” means a trade union, business association or other association with 
juridical personality representing business and/or workers, that has fulfilled the 
requirements of this Agreement and the Operational Manual to be eligible to participate 
in Part A of the Project, including the Bank’s approval of the financial management 
capacity of such Sector organization. 
 
40. 
“Stipend” means a stipend paid by the Ministry of Labor through a debit card under Part 
C.3 of the Project and not exceeding, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, A$200 per 
Youth. 
 
41. 
“TCU” means the technical coordination unit to be established by the Borrower pursuant 
to Section I.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
42. 
“Technical Unit” means the unit to be established by Sector Organizations for purposes 
of assisting in the implementation of CNAs and CAAs. 
 
43. 
“Unit Cost” means the unit cost on which a CNA Eligible Cost, a CAA Eligible Cost and 
an AEA Eligible Cost is based, set forth in the Operational Manual, as such Unit Cost 
may be modified in agreement with the Bank. 
 
44. 
“Youth” means any individual between 18 and 24 years of age. 
 
45. 
“Youth Internship Subproject” means an internship for Youth, identified by an Internship 
Employer following the requirements of the Operational Manual, which is selected and 
eligible for financing in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
