CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7429-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Santa Fe Road Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
Province of Santa Fe 
 
Dated June 12, 2007 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7429-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 12, 2007, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and PROVINCE OF SANTA FE 
(“Borrower”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred twenty six million seven hundred 
thousand Dollars ($126,700,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time. In the event that the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-
end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 days after the 
Effective Date.  
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
2
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out: (a) Part 1 of the Project, through the UG, with the assistance of 
the DPV, and the participation of DNV (as provided in the Convenios); (b) Part 2 (a) and 
(d) of the Project, through the UG, with the assistance of the DPV; and (c) Part 2 (b), (c) 
and (e) of the Project, through the UG, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
The DNV shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Convenios.
(b) 
The Guarantor shall have failed to, prior to the carrying out of the civil works 
under Part 1 of the Project, notify the existing concessionaire operating in 
National Route 19, in a manner and on terms acceptable to the Bank, with respect 
to: (i) the contents and nature of said works; and (ii) the fact that said works fall 
within the framework of the pertinent concession agreement, and that the same 
will be carried out by the Borrower as provided in Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement (and by DNV with respect to the works on said route in the Province 
of Cordoba). 
(c) 
The DNV shall have failed to enable the Bank’s representatives to visit any 
facilities and construction sites related to the works referred to in Article 6 of the 
Convenio Complementario No. 2.  
(d) 
The representation made by DNV referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
was incorrect in any material respect and/or DNV shall have failed to comply in 
whole or in part with its commitment reflected in the letter mentioned in said 
Section.  
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the presentation to the Bank of a 
letter from DNV to the Borrower (on terms acceptable to the Bank) within the legal 
framework governing the Convenios whereby DNV represents and reiterates: (a) that the 
term “proyecto aprobado” as referred to in Article 6 of the Convenio Complementario 
No. 2 includes all pertinent socio-economic and environmental plans to be implemented 
during the carrying out of the works referred to in said Article; and (b) that it has 
complied to the date of said letter, and its commitment to continue to comply, with the 
pertinent provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Plan, prior to and/or 
during the carrying out of the works mentioned in (a) herein, pursuant to Article 6 of the 
Convenio Complementario No. 2. 
4
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than 
 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on August 
 
13, 2008. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor (Gobernador). 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Tres de Febrero 2649 
Santa Fe, 
Provincia de Santa Fe 
 
Facsimile: 
(0342) 450-6865 
 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
PROVINCE OF SANTA FE 
 
By/s/ Jorge Alberto Obeid 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the transport conditions of the segment 
of National Route 19 located within the Borrower’s territory, which links the same with regional 
and international markets; and (b) strengthen the Borrower’s institutional capacity to: (i) improve 
road safety; (ii) identify transport infrastructure and trade facilitation constraints, through the 
establishment of a mechanism to measure logistics costs so as to reduce the same; (iii) foster 
territorial planning; (iv) assess and manage environmental and social impacts resulting from the 
execution of large civil works; and (v) monitor and evaluate the execution of large infrastructure 
investments. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1. Civil Works
Carrying out of road upgrading works along the segment of National Route 19 located 
within the Borrower’s territory (from the town of Santo Tomé to the border with the Province of 
Cordoba), which works consist of, inter alia: (a) the widening of said segment of National Route 
19, so as to convert the same into a two lane carriageway in each traffic direction; (b) the 
construction of two four-lane bypasses in the towns of San Jerónimo del Sauce and San Pereyra, 
and the transformation of the unused segments of National Route 19 (as a result of the 
construction of said bypasses) into boulevards; (c) the alignment improvement of three sharp 
curves along the existing segment; (d) the grade separation of interchanges at intersections with 
high traffic volume, and the construction of overpasses for rail crossings; (e) the construction of 
ground-level interchanges at intersections with the Borrower’s urban and/or rural roads; (f) the 
construction of turn lanes and returns at intervals of about 6 kilometers to facilitate safe access to 
landholders along said segment; and (g) the construction of a by-pass in the border area with the 
Province of Cordoba which will ultimately connect the upgraded segment of National Route 19 
mentioned herein with the new segment of said national route to be upgraded by DNV within the 
Province of Cordoba (pursuant to the terms of the Convenio Complementario No. 2) up to its 
intersection with National Route 158.     
Part 2. Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Carrying out of a pilot road safety program for the Borrower’s paved road No. 21 
(RP21), which program consists of, inter alia: (i) the grading and improvement of shoulders 
along about 18 kilometers of the road; (ii) the construction of about 10 paved bus stops; (iii) the 
construction of about 8 left-turn lanes; (iv) the installation of guard rails at about 4 curves; (v) the 
installation of traffic signals at about 6 accesses to industrial areas; (vi) the construction of about 
7 pedestrian bridges in selected locations; (vii) the improvement of lightning at 2 accesses to 
industrial areas; (viii) the lightning design for 2 intersections; and (ix) the acquisition and 
utilization of alcohol testing and driver fatigue control (control de fatiga) equipment, including 
the provision of training to the Borrower’s road inspectors (excluding the Borrower’s police 
force) responsible for operating said equipment and enforcing compliance of the pertinent road 
safety regulations. 
7
(b) 
(i) Establishment of a logistics unit with functions and responsibilities acceptable 
to the Bank, including the responsibility to carry out surveys to measure trade-related logistics 
costs; (ii) carrying out of a training program on trade-related logistics matters for the benefit of 
the Borrower’s personnel assigned to said logistics unit; (iii) carrying out of periodic surveys and 
complementary studies (as determined by the Borrower in a manner acceptable to the Bank) in 
order to identify any infrastructure and/or trade facilitation constraints; and (iv) carrying out of 
seminars/workshops in order to disseminate the findings resulting from the carrying out of the 
surveys and studies mentioned in (iii) herein.  
 
(c) 
(i) Carrying out of an assessment of the current institutional organization 
capacity of all Borrower’s agencies and entities which are vested with public planning 
responsibilities; and (ii) based on the recommendations resulting from said assessment, designing 
a strategic development plan to improve coordination amongst said agencies and entities, 
including the design of an information sharing system amongst the same. 
 
(d) 
Strengthening of DPV’s environmental capacity so as to enable DPV to carry out 
an effective planning, design and supervision of environmental and social aspects of large civil 
works, through, inter alia, the carrying out of a strategic environmental assessment (which shall 
focus on poverty and the regional hydrological patterns and floods, wetland conservation, land 
use, and rural development) for purposes of assessing the linkages between the provincial road 
network and regional development scenarios, including the acquisition and utilization of goods 
and the provision of training required therefor.  
 
(e) 
(i) Strengthening of UG’s monitoring and evaluation capacity with respect to 
large infrastructure investments, through the provision of technical assistance and training and the 
acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor; and (ii) the provision of technical 
assistance to the Borrower to enable the same to carry out the audits referred to in Section II.B.3 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as approved by the Bank.   
 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Convenio 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Convenio or any provision thereof.  
2. 
For purposes of carrying out Parts 1 and 2 (a) and (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause DPV to undertake all action to provide the necessary assistance to the Borrower in the 
carrying out of said Project activities. 
3. 
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall carry out, and/or cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with: (i) the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, said manual to include, inter alia: (A) the institutional and 
administrative structure of the UG, including its functions and responsibilities; (B) the Project’s 
chart of accounts, internal controls, and budgeting, accounting and financial reporting systems; 
(C) the format of: (1) the unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II. B. 2 of this 
Schedule; and (2) the Financial Statements; (D) the terms of reference for carrying out the Project 
audits under Section II.B.3 of this Schedule; (E) the Project’s flow of funds structure; (F) the 
Project’s administrative and procurement procedures; (G) a price monitoring mechanism; (H) the 
Project monitoring indicators; and (I) the fiscal indicators referred to in Part A of Section V of 
this Schedule; and (ii) the pertinent provisions of the Environmental and Social Management 
Plan. 
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Operational Manual, the 
Environmental and Social Management Plan and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
4. 
(a)  The Borrower shall operate and maintain, at all times during Project implementation, 
the UG with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter 
alia, the responsibility to assist the Borrower in the implementation, monitoring and supervision 
of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the UG is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by professional staff and 
administrative staff, all in numbers and with terms of reference, and qualifications and 
experience, all acceptable to the Bank. 
9
5. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 3.01 (a) of this Agreement and I.A.3 (ii) 
of this Schedule, and prior to the carrying out of the works under Part 1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall carry out, and/or cause to be carried out, the pertinent provisions of the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Plan pertaining to said works, in accordance with its terms, and in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank.   
6. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 2010: (i) carry out a mid-term impact 
assessment of the Project in accordance with the Project indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual, which assessment shall take into account the variables related to enhanced roads 
condition, the reduction in travel time, the transport costs, measurement of logistics costs, 
production opportunities, job generation and road safety; and (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank, 
a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request reflecting the results 
of said mid-term assessment; and (b) not later than March 31, 2012: (i) carry out a final impact 
assessment of the Project in accordance with said Project indicators, which final assessment shall 
also take into account the same variables mentioned in (a) (i) herein; and (ii) prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request 
reflecting the results of said final impact assessment. 
 
7. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 6 of this Section, the Borrower shall: 
(a) not later than forty five calendar days after the end of each calendar semester of Project 
implementation (starting in the first semester of 2008), carry out, and/or cause to be carried out, 
an assessment of the impact of the road safety program under Part 2 (a) of the Project, which 
assessment shall take into account, inter alia, the evolution of the road accident rate in the roads 
to be benefited under the Project; and (b) immediately thereafter, prepare and furnish to the Bank, 
a report thereon of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.  
8. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than two years, and four years, after the completion of 
the works under Part 1 of the Project, respectively, carry out and/or cause to be carried out, an 
origin-destination survey in accordance with terms of reference, and in manner, both acceptable 
to the Bank; and (b) immediately after the carrying out of each of said surveys, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request 
concerning the outcome of said surveys.  
9. 
The Borrower shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar year during Project 
implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each said calendar year of Project 
implementation, a specific budget line entry in the relevant annual budget in order to keep track 
of the corresponding expenditures incurred during Project implementation through its financial 
management system referred to in Section II.B.1 of this Schedule. 
10. 
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, carry out, and/or cause to be carried out, an assessment of the cost-efficiency of 
the procurement and execution phases in respect of the civil works under Part 1 of the Project 
which have been procured and/or executed during said given calendar year so as to identify the 
bidding practices and behaviors of the bidding firms of said works, the price variations of said 
works during the execution of the same, and their impact on the amount of the pertinent civil 
works contract vis a vis the Borrower’s official estimate budget for said works; (b) not later than 
forty five calendar days after the carrying out of said assessment, prepare and furnish, and/or 
cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank, a report of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request which report shall reflect, inter alia, the Borrower’s findings and 
10
recommendations of said assessment; and (c) immediately thereafter, implement, and/or cause to 
be implemented, the same, including any Bank views/recommendations on the matter, if 
applicable.   
11. 
The Borrower shall, not later than ninety days after the date of this Agreement: (a) 
publish in a web page acceptable to the Bank, the Project standard bidding documents and 
standard requests for quotations/proposals referred to in Section III.A.4 (a) of this Schedule, the 
model contracts for consultants’ services to be financed under the Project, and the corresponding 
model evaluation forms in respect of bids and proposals for works, goods and consultants’ 
services under the Project, all acceptable to the Bank; and (b) thereafter: (i) amend the 
Operational Manual so as to include the same in said manual; and (ii) ensure that the information 
mentioned in (a) herein shall continue to be published throughout Project implementation in said 
web page. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports.   
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the 
basis of the Project indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty 
five calendar days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
Without limitation to Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, each Project Report 
mentioned in Section II.A.1 above, shall include, inter alia, detailed information with respect to: 
(a) the status of implementation of the Environmental and Social Management Plan, and the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Plan, including any measures to be undertaken (or cause to be 
undertaken) by the Borrower to address any issues which arose during the implementation of said 
plans; (b) the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period covered by 
each report, including detailed information with respect to the budget allocated for the carrying 
out of the works under Part 1 of the Project; and (c) the amount of the Loan amount disbursed 
during the pertinent calendar semester, and the expected Loan amount to be disbursed during the 
calendar semester following the date of presentation of said Progress Report. 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later 
than March 31 of each year of Project implementation (starting in the year 2007), exchange views 
with the Bank (the annual reviews). As part of the annual review to be carried out in the year 
2010 (the mid-term review), and in the year 2012 (final review), the Borrower shall also review 
with the Bank the reports referred to in Section I.A.6 of this Schedule.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
11
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five calendar 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the calendar quarter preceding the date of presentation of each said report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) at the time of presentation of each un-audited financial 
report, and if the Borrower’s supreme audit institution has produced a control report on the use of 
Project funds covering the period of the pertinent report mentioned in (a) herein, furnish to the 
Bank a copy of said control report. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements 
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General.
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions 
of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the 
corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the 
case may be. 
4. 
Special Provisions. Without limitation to the provisions in Section III A.1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, works, 
and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
(a) 
(i) the prequalification of bidders in respect of works under Part 1 of the Project 
shall use standard pre-qualification documents acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) without limitation 
to the provisions of (i) herein, the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services (in 
respect of firms) shall be carried out using standard bidding documents (which bidding 
documents in respect of works shall include a provision whereby the contractor must comply with 
the pertinent provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Plan, and if applicable, the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan) and standard requests for quotations/proposals 
acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision, as 
applicable; 
12
 
(b) 
all contracts for works to be procured under the Project shall contain a 
methodology, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the price of each said contracts shall be adjusted 
through the use of price adjustment formulas, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(c)    
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of 
goods and works;  
(d)    after the public opening of bids for goods and works, information relating to the 
examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and recommendations concerning awards, shall 
not be disclosed to bidders or other persons not officially concerned with this process until the 
publication of contract award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned 
with said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids;  
(e)  after the public opening of consultants’ proposals, information relating to the 
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations concerning awards, 
shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not officially concerned with this process 
until the publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the 
Consultant Guidelines). In addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned 
with said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants’ proposals; 
(f)    
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a representative 
in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine suppliers, contractors or 
consultants; 
(g)  
the invitations to pre-qualify (including prequalification documents and the 
pertinent summary of the evaluation reports) and to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid 
openings, requests for expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports 
of bids and proposals of all goods, works and consultants’ services, as the case may be, shall be 
published in a web page, acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The 
prequalification and bidding periods shall be each be counted from the date of publication of the 
invitation to pre-qualify or bid, or from the date of the availability of the prequalification or 
bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of presentation of prequalification applications 
or bid opening, all as the case may be;  
(h) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and works to be procured 
under National Competitive Bidding procedures; 
(i) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by 
the Borrower in determining if the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the lowest 
evaluated bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in 
the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation 
set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and works to be procured under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures;  
13
(j) 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids in respect of goods and/or works shall 
not apply under the Project;  
(k) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or 
contract award; 
(l) 
the Borrower shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans 
Execution System with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 30 days 
after such plan has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least 
biannually, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and 
progress and shall supply the Bank’s Procurement Plans Execution System with the information 
contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; 
(m) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities; and 
(n) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines 
(including the important provisions to be included in said contracts under said Section IV) shall 
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower in connection with the contracting of 
consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
For purposes of paragraph 2 (a) herein, and without limitation to the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, the term National Competitive Bidding 
means the pertinent competitive bidding procedures used by the Borrower for public provincial 
procurement. 
 
14
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-
based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be 
used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 
and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for works estimated to 
cost more than $3,000,000 equivalent; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost more than 
$250,000 equivalent; (c) the first two contracts each for goods and works procured on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and Shopping regardless of their cost; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
and (e) the first two contracts for consultants’ services provided by a firm on the basis of Quality-
and Cost-based Selection regardless of their cost.   
 
In addition, the following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more: (a) the 
report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of the candidates, the terms of 
reference and conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval; (b) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall 
have been given; and (c) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to the contract.  
 
All other contracts not mentioned in this Section III.D shall be subject to Post Review by 
the Bank. 
 
15
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such additional instructions 
as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan 
to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) Works  
                  104,400,000 
73% 
(2) Goods, Consultants’ 
Services (including the Project 
audits) and Training  
 
2,000,000   
100% 
 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
Amounts payable pursuant to 
Section 2.08 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
                    20,300,000               
TOTAL AMOUNT 
                  126,700,000 
 
For purposes of this table, the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by Borrower, as approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual 
budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainees 
and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, and rental of training facilities and 
equipment under Part 2 of the Project. 
 
16
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end Fee, as applicable; and  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2007 (but in no case more than one year prior to 
the date of this Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2), if the 
Borrower has complied with the pertinent provisions set forth in this Agreement.   
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
Section V.
Other Undertakings
A.
(a) 
The Borrower shall comply with the fiscal indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: (i) not later than sixty calendar days after the end of each 
calendar semester during Project implementation (starting with the report covering the first 
calendar semester of 2007), prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, acceptable to the Bank, 
concerning the Borrower’s compliance with the fiscal indicators mentioned in (a) herein; and (ii) 
not later than sixty calendar days after the presentation of each of said reports, review with the 
Bank the pertinent report.  
B.
The Borrower shall establish adequate mechanisms and/or undertake the appropriate 
actions to maintain compliance, at least during Project implementation, with the provisions of the 
Fiscal Responsibility Law so as to achieve fiscal sustainability.  
17
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the 
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  
If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the 
principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal 
Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2012  
 
through October 15, 2021 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which is the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for 
said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the 
sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal 
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
18
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the 
respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to 
any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date 
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such 
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the 
Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan 
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
19
APPENDIX 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“Convenios” means: (a) the agreement (the Convenio) dated November 14, 2005, entered 
into between the Borrower and DNV (as defined below) which sets forth, inter alia, the 
general framework for the carrying out of the works in respect of National Route 19 (as 
defined below) referred to in Part 1 of the Project, and the works to be carried out in the 
Province of Cordoba by DNV in respect of said national route; (b) the Convenio 
Complementario No. 1 (the Convenio Complementario No. 1) dated February 24, 2006, 
entered into between the Borrower and DNV (as defined below) which sets forth, inter 
alia, the terms and conditions for carrying out the technical and socio-economic studies 
of the Project (including the works to be carried out in the Province of Cordoba referred 
to in (a) herein) during the preparation of the same; and/or (c) the Convenio 
Complementario No. 2 (as defined below), as the case may be. 
4. 
“Convenio Complementario No. 2” means the agreement dated November 28, 2006, 
entered into between the Borrower and DNV (as defined below) which sets forth, inter 
alia, the terms and conditions for carrying out the works in respect of National Route 19 
(as defined below) referred to in Part 1 of the Project, and the obligation of DNV to carry 
out contemporaneously with the Project the works in the Province of Cordoba in respect 
of said national route. 
5. 
“DNV” means Dirección Nacional de Vialidad, the Guarantor’s National Road 
Directorate, an entity vested with legal personality which is responsible for, inter alia, the 
design, construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of the Guarantor’s national road 
network, as applicable (including the responsibility to expropriate any assets in 
connection with the carrying out of its responsibilities, and to compensate the owners of 
the same), and established by the Guarantor’s Decree-Law No. 505/1958 of January 16, 
1958 (duly published in the Guarantor’s official gazette on January 22, 1958), as said 
Decree-Law has been amended to the date of this Agreement).   
6. 
“DPV” means Dirección Provincial de Vialidad, the Borrower’s Provincial Road 
Directorate, an entity vested with legal personality which is responsible for, inter alia, the 
carrying out of any works on roads within the Borrower’s provincial road network, and/or 
national road network if agreed with the Guarantor, and established by the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 08370 of November 7, 1967 (as said Decree has been amended to the date of 
this Agreement). 
7. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the means Borrower’s and DNV’s 
(as defined below) plan, acceptable to the Bank, dated December 20, 2006 which sets 
20
forth, inter alia: (a) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan (as defined below); (b) the 
environmental/social screening process followed during Project preparation in respect of 
the activities to be carried out under the Project, in particular the works referred to in the 
Convenios (as defined above); (c) the procedures to be followed during Project 
implementation in connection with the finding of cultural property; (d) the measures and 
procedures to mitigate, prevent and manage environmental and social impacts (positive 
and negative) associated with the carrying out of the Project activities (including the works 
referred to in (b) herein); and (e) a public participation framework to be followed during 
Project implementation. 
8. 
 “Fiscal Responsibility Law” means the Guarantor’s law No. 25.917 dated August 4, 2004 
(duly published in the Guarantor’s official gazette on August 25, 2004), which establishes, 
inter alia, a federal regime of fiscal responsibility with the objective of ensuring fiscal 
sustainability at the provincial level, through the setting of general rules of fiscal behavior 
and the provision of greater transparency in public management (as such term also 
includes the regulations to said law), and adhered by the Borrower pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 12402/2005 of March 3, 2005 (duly published in the Borrower’s 
official gazette on March 11, 2005). 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
10. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan” means Borrower’s and DNV’s plan which 
includes, inter alia: (a) the objectives of said plan; (b) the applicable legal and 
institutional frameworks governing the implementation of said plan, including the 
valuation and compensation methodology; (c) the procedures to be followed with respect 
to the different alternatives of land acquisition; and (d) the pertinent resettlement 
assistance, including the measures to ensure that the affected population are informed 
about their options and rights pertaining to the different alternatives of land acquisition.  
11. 
“National Route 19” means Ruta Nacional 19, a road which is part of the Guarantor’s 
national road network, and under the administrative jurisdiction of DNV (as defined 
above).  
12. 
“National Route 158” means Ruta Nacional 158, a road which is part of the Guarantor’s 
national road network, and under the administrative jurisdiction of DNV (as defined 
above). 
13. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable to the Bank, dated 
December 20, 2006, referred to in Section I.A.3 (a) (i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
21
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
December 20, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of Section II.A.2 (c) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
16. 
“Province of Cordoba” means a political subdivision of the Guarantor as per title Two of 
the Guarantor’s 1994 Constitution.  
 
17. 
“UG” means Unidad de Gestión, the Borrower’s implementation unit established  
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 2011/2006 dated August 8, 2006, duly published 
in the Borrower’s official gazette on August 20, 2006 (as said Decree may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank), or any successor thereto, acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
