CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4840-CHA  
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Fujian Highway Sector Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 30, 2007 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 30, 2007, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF 
CHINA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General 
Conditions or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred twenty 
million Dollars ($320,000,000) to assist in financing of the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance, subject to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent 
(1.0%) of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee 
as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall 
pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective 
Date. 
 
2
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a 
rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, 
subject to any waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined 
by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.06. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To 
this end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry 
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. The Additional Legal Matters consists of the following. 
 
(a) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Project Implementing Entity, and is legally binding upon the 
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
4.02 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
3
5.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
Facsimile: (86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic China, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
PEOPLES’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Yang Shaolin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing the 
effective use of the road infrastructure in Fujian Province to support its social and 
economic development by: (i) enhancing its rural roads network; (ii) reducing 
transport costs; and (iii) facilitating the interconnection across the Borrower’s 
coastal provinces. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Rural Roads Improvement Program 
Construction of selected road sections of the Rural Roads Improvement Program, 
including provision of technical assistance for the supervision thereof. 
 
Part B: Yong’an – Wuping Expressway
Construction of about 195 km long four lanes new highway section of the 
Changchun–Shenzhen expressway between Yong’an (Sanming City) and Yanqian 
in Wuping (Longyan City), including the acquisition and installation of electrical 
and mechanical facilities, the construction of buildings and annex areas for 
service and safety operations, and provision of technical assistance for the 
supervision thereof. 
 
Part C: Highway Maintenance Pilot Program
Development and implementation on a pilot basis of a program for sourcing out 
periodic and routine highway maintenance in selected sections of Fujian Province 
highway road networks, including staff training and provision of technical 
assistance therefor. 
 
Part D: Institutional Strengthening Program
Carrying out of an institutional strengthening program for FPCD, including: (i) 
staff training on activities such as road asset management, operational 
management of roads and expressways, construction quality control, road safety, 
and design and operational safety considerations for tunnels; (ii) a comprehensive 
study on toll rates across Fujian Province  to evaluate their influence on traffic 
demand, maximize the use of the expressway network and optimize its economic 
6
value, and on impact evaluation and monitoring to establish a knowledge base of 
the impacts of the RRIP on rural livelihoods  to provide an analytical base for the 
design of future interventions on those types of roads across Fujian Province; and 
(iii) provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of the 
Highway Maintenance Pilot under Part C of the Project. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.       Financing Arrangement; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and the 
following principal terms:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal 
from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty 
(20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) 
the principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount 
equal to the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.  
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal 
to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the 
Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
The Borrower shall charge the Project Implementing 
Entity: (A) a commitment fee on the principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum; and (B) an additional fee in an amount 
equal to the amount payable by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of the Agreement. 
 
8
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this 
Schedule.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end 
of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on 
the execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of 
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the 
Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
The audit of the Financial Statements shall include verification of compliance by 
FPCD of the procedures for the certification referred to in paragraph B.1.(b) of 
Section IV, Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General.
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2.
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
9
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of 
the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3.
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International and National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise 
provided in paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and National 
Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the following additional procedures:   
 
(a) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding 
shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s 
Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's 
Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in 
a newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s 
country, except for civil works contracts that are estimated 
cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods 
contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent each, which may be advertised in a provincial 
daily newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient 
time 
for 
prospective 
bidders 
to 
obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and 
submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty 
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be 
specified in detail in the bidding documents. 
 
10 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the 
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and 
there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified 
bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an 
amount sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach 
of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents 
shall specify the required form and amount of such 
security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be 
offered an opportunity to be present (either in person or 
through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, 
but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid 
opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed 
in the form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and 
whose bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially 
responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition of award, to undertake 
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
11 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country 
may be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and 
works if they can establish that they: (i) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; 
and (iii) are not a dependent agency of the agency 
conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the 
number of bids is less than three (3). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International and National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2.
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and 
Cost-based Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection based on Consultant’s 
Qualifications 
(b)  Individual Consultant 
12 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for works under Part B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$4 million or more; (b) each contract for works under Part C of the Project 
regardless of its method of procurement and contract value; and (c) each contract 
for consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more 
for firms, and US$50,000 or more for individuals. All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category, inclusive of taxes. 
 
Category
Loan Allocated  
(Expressed in Dollars) 
Amount of the % of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) CIVIL WORKS 
 
(a) under Part A of the Project  
98,260,000 
100% 
(b) under Part B of the Project 
216,558,000 
33% 
(c) under Part C of the Project 
180,000 
30% 
(2) CONSULTANT SERVICES 
 
(a) under Part A 
 250,000  
100% 
(b) under Part B 
1,992,000 
100% 
(c) under Part C 
60,000 
100% 
(3) TRAINING under Part D 
2,700,000 
100% 
TOTAL 
320,000,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
13 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal 
shall be made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but 
on or after April 30, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category (1)(a); 
 
(b) 
in respect of expenditures under Category 1(a) unless:  
 
(i) 
the Borrower, through FPCD, on the basis of reports issued 
by the DOFWPB, has certified in a form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank of the following: 
 
(a)   quality and number of kilometers rehabilitated of each 
Local  Section Road under Part A of the Project 
(hereinafter called “Output” and collectively “Outputs”);  
 
(b) compliance with the provisions of the RRIP 
Framework, including road selection criteria, quality of 
construction and type of road, and with the RPF, MNDF, 
and EMP, as the case may be;  
 
(c)  the amount so calculated does not exceed the actual 
costs of the rehabilitation works of each such Output; and 
 
(d)  the said Output or Outputs have not already been 
claimed by the Borrower to support previous withdrawal 
applications from the Loan Account; 
 
(ii) 
the amount to be so withdrawn is equal to the amount 
resulting from multiplying the Output or Outputs times the 
relevant Unit Costs set forth in Annex 2 of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
14 
ANNEX 1 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph A.1, Section II of this Schedule 
consist of the following: 
 
PDO 
Project Outcome Indicators 
Use of Project Outcome 
Information 
To increase the effective use 
of the road infrastructure in 
Fujian Province to support its 
social and economic 
development  
 
Reduction of freight rates on 
Yong’an-Wuping Corridor 
 
Reduction of travel times on 
rural roads 
 
Assess impact of improved 
expressway and rural 
infrastructure on users’ 
behaviors and the effective 
transfer of benefits to road users 
 
Intermediate Outcomes 
Intermediate Outcome 
Indicators 
Use of Intermediate Outcome 
Monitoring 
(a) Transport flows on rural 
roads improved: 
rehabilitation of about 3,500 
kms of rural roads under the 
Project Implementing 
Entity’s Rural Roads 
Improvement Program 
(RRIP) 
 
Traffic volumes on rural roads 
increased 
 
Supply of bus passenger 
services enhanced 
 
Pace of loan disbursements 
under RRIP component 
accelerated 
 
Assess level of use of upgraded 
infrastructure, including 
increased provision of passenger 
services, and reduction in travel 
access to social services and 
economic activities 
 
Verify and evaluate 
applicability of framework for 
the RRIP that will lead to the 
self-selection of roads eligible 
for World Bank financing and 
enhanced capacity at the local 
level 
 
(b) Transport conditions 
enhanced on the corridor 
between Yong’an and 
Wuping (border with 
Guangdong Province): 
construction of the 195-km 
Yong’an-Wuping 
Expressway (YWE) 
Traffic volumes on YWE and 
G205 increased 
 
Average travel times on YWE 
and G205 decreased at the 
opening of the YWE 
 
Accident rates on corridor 
(YWE and G205) reduced at 
Assess level of use of upgraded 
road conditions on the Yong’an-
Wuping corridor, in a faster and 
safe manner.
15 
 
the opening of the YWE 
 
(c) Alternative maintenance 
mechanisms tested and 
applied to provincial road 
network: two pilot initiatives 
of maintenance by contract in 
two segments of the 
provincial road network. 
 
Contract maintenance 
approaches in Fujian Province 
applied 
Verify applicability of 
alternative maintenance 
mechanisms for road 
maintenance, through the 
contracting out maintenance 
activities 
(d) Road management 
capacities at FPCD 
strengthened: institutional 
strengthening component 
 
Enhanced knowledge and 
application of updated road 
management approaches 
including: (a) toll rate setting; 
and (b) measurement of 
impacts. 
 
Effective completion of 
training programs. 
Continued knowledge 
acquisition of updated 
approaches on road 
management topics, building on 
previous institutional 
development actions, towards 
ensuring enhanced technical and 
management capacity at FPCD. 
16 
ANNEX 2 
 
Unit Cost 
 
(a). 
The Unit Cost per kilometer of rural roads rehabilitated is as follows: 
 
•
County roads in counties in poverty-stricken regions: US$100,000; 
•
County roads in counties in other under-developed regions: 
US$75,000; 
•
County roads in counties in other regions - mountainous counties, or 
other regions – coastal counties: US$37,500; 
•
Township/village roads in counties in poverty-stricken regions: 
US$28,800; 
•
Township/village roads in counties in other under-developed regions: 
US$25,000; 
•
Township/village roads in counties in other regions - mountainous 
counties: US$18,800; 
•
Township/village roads in counties in other regions - coastal counties: 
US$12,500. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Annex the above-mentioned 
classification of counties by region relates to the following counties: 
•
“Poverty-stricken regions” (17 counties): Ping Tan,Yong Tai,,Xian 
You, Ping He, Hua An, Chang Ding, Lian Cheng, Shang Hang, Wu 
Ping, Da Tian, Jian Ning, Ning Hua, Guang Ze, Zheng He, Ping Nan, 
Shou Ning, Zhou Ning; 
•
“Other under-developed regions” (29 counties): Min Qing, Chang Tai, 
Dong Shan, Long Hai, Nan Jing, Yun Xiao, Zhang Pu, Zhao An, Yong 
Ding, Zhang Ping, Jiang Le, Ming Xi, Qing Liu, Tai Ning, You Xi, 
Jian Ou, Jian Yang, Pu Cheng, Shao Wu, Shun Chang, Wu Yi Shan, 
Fu An, Fu Ding, Gu Tian, Jiao Cheng, Xia Pu, Cheng Xiang, Han 
Jiang, Xiu Yu; 
•
“Other regions - mountainous counties” (3 counties): Xin Luo, Yong 
An, Yan Ping; 
•
“Other regions - coastal counties” (4 counties): Jin An, Lian Jiang, 
Min Hou, Mei Zhou; 
(c) 
On April 30 of each year commencing on April 30, 2007, the Borrower 
and the Bank shall review, and if required revise, the Unit Costs under paragraph 
(a) of this Annex with a view of determining that they are maintained at levels 
17 
which are cost effective and lower than the actual contractual costs for 
construction of   roads with similar characteristics in the relevant region. 
 
18 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
 
 
Payment of Principal 
April 15,  2012 
 
October 15,  2012 
 
 
April 15,  2013 
 
October 15,  2013 
 
 
April 15,  2014 
 
October 15,  2014 
 
 
April 15,  2015 
 
October 15,  2015 
 
 
April 15,  2016 
 
 
October 15,  2016 
 
 
April 15,  2017 
 
October 15,  2017 
 
 
April 15,  2018 
 
October 15,  2018 
 
 
April 15,  2019 
October 15,  2019 
 
April 15,  2020 
 
October 15,  2020 
 
April 15,  2021 
 
October 15,  2021 
April 15,  2022 
October 15,  2022 
April 15,  2023 
October 15,  2023 
April 15,  2024 
October 15,  2024 
April 15,  2025 
October 15,  2025 
April 15,  2026 
October 15,  2026 
 6,890,000 
 7,090,000 
 7,290,000 
 7,495,000 
 7,710,000 
 7,930,000 
 8,155,000 
 8,390,000 
 8,630,000 
 8,875,000 
 9,125,000 
 9,385,000 
 9,655,000 
 9,930,000 
10,215,000 
10,505,000 
10,805,000 
11,110,000 
11,430,000 
11,755,000 
12,090,000 
12,435,000 
12,790,000 
13,150,000 
13,525,000 
13,910,000 
14,310,000 
14,715,000 
15,135,000 
15,570,000 
19 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant 
Guidelines” 
means 
the 
“Guidelines: 
Selection 
and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the 
Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“DOFWBP” means the Director’s Office for World Bank Project, 
established under Fujian Provincial Communications Department on 
January 11, 2006 to coordinate the preparation of the Project and supervise 
and monitor its implementation, and referred to in paragraph 1, Section I 
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.   
 
5. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and 
social impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in 
(A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or 
(C) loss of income sources or means of  livelihood, whether or not such 
person must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of 
access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse 
impacts on the livelihood of such person; and “Displaced Persons” means  
collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
6. 
“EMPs” means, collectively: (i) the environmental management plan in 
respect of the RRIP and the road sections under Part A of the Project duly 
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on April 30, 2006, and 
referred to in paragraph 2, Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank, and; (ii) the environmental management plan in 
respect of the Yong’an – Wuping Expressway under Part B of the Project 
duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on May 30, 2006, and 
referred to in paragraph 2, Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “EMP” means any of the EMP. 
20 
7. 
“Financial Management Manuals” means collectively: (i) the financial 
management manual in respect of the RRIP and the road sections under 
Part A of the Project duly adopted by the Project Implementing Unit on 
April 30, 2006 and referred to in paragraph B.2., Section II of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement; and (ii) the financial management 
manual in respect of Yong’an – Wuping Expressway under Part B of the 
Project duly adopted by the Project Implementing Unit on May 30, 2006 
and referred to in paragraph B.2., Section II of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement; as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; and “Financial Management Manual” means any 
of the Financial Management Manuals. 
 
8. 
“FPCD” means the Fujian Provincial Communications Department, and 
any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
 “Local Road Section” means any road section out of the 10,000-km of 
rural roads set forth in the RRIP, which is selected by the Project 
Implementation Entity to be improved and rehabilitated under Part A of 
the Project in accordance with paragraph 4(b) of Section I of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, and the term “Local Road Sections” means 
collectively all the Local Road Section. 
 
10. 
“Minority Nationality Development Framework” and the acronym 
“MNDF” means the minority nationality development framework dated 
March 2006 duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on April 30, 
2006, as the same may be amended with the prior agreement by the Bank.   
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the 
Project, dated March 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the 
Project Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
21 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Provincial 
Government of Fujian and any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
 “RAP” means, the resettlement action plan dated March 2006, with 
respect to Part B of the Project, duly adopted by the Project Implementing 
Entity on May 30, 2006, which set out the principles and procedures 
governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation 
of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of such Part of the 
Project, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank; and such term includes all 
attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans.  
 
16. 
“RAPs” means collectively the RAP, as so defined, and the resettlement 
action plans to be prepared and adopted by the Project Implementing 
Entity for Part A of the Project pursuant to the RPF and the provisions of 
paragraph 2 (c), Section I of the  Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
17. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” mean the resettlement 
policy framework dated March 2006, with respect to Part A of the Project, 
duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on April 30, 2006, that 
sets forth the resettlement principles, organizational arrangements, and 
design criteria in accordance with which resettlement action plans are 
prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2(c), Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
18. 
“Rural Roads Improvement Program” and the acronym “RRIP” means the 
program adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, through its 
Provincial Development and Reform Commission, on January 24, 2006, 
under Directive 39, 2006, aimed at the improvement and rehabilitation of 
lower class rural roads (Class III and IV), consistent mostly of resurfacing 
the unpaved roads with concrete pavement, in selected rural areas in 
Fujian Province. 
 
19. 
“RRIP Framework” means the framework for implementing Part A of the 
Project, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity on April 30, 2006, 
and to be implemented pursuant to paragraph 4(a) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be revised with the 
prior agreement by the Bank. 
 
22 
20. 
“Unit Cost” means each of the associated costs per kilometer of 
improvement and rehabilitation works of the various classes of roads 
under Part A  of the Project to be applied as the multiplier for determining 
the eligible amount of financing out of the proceeds of the Loan for each 
Local Road Section, as such unit costs are set forth in Annex 2 to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and may be reviewed and revised pursuant 
to paragraph (c) of such Annex, and the term “Unit Costs” means 
collectively all the Unit Cost. 
 
