CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7411-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Bahia Integrated State Highway Management  
Project – Programa de Restauração e Manutenção de Rodovias - PREMAR) 
 
between 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 10, 2007  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7411-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 10, 2007, between the STATE OF BAHIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
2
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, with the prior non-objection of the 
Guarantor, through the Secretariat of National Treasury of the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause DERBA to carry out the Project, with the 
assistance of: (a) SEINFRA to carry out Part 2.B of the Project; (b) SEI to carry 
out Part 2.C of the Project; and (c) AGERBA to carry out Part 2.D of the Project, 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
3
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the procedures of the Operational Manual. 
 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
DERBA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement to an extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely 
affect the achievement of the Project objective. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on May 
14, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of SEINFRA. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria de Infra-Estrutura 
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 4ª. Av., nº 440 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia – Salvador, Bahia, Brasil 
CEP 41750-000 
 
Facsimile: ++ (55) 71 3371 7488 
 
With a copy to: 
 
4
Secretaria do Planejamento do Estado da Bahia – SEPLAN 
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 2ª Av., nº 250 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia – Salvador, Bahia, Brasil 
CEP: 41.746-900 
 
Facsimile ++(55.71) 3115-3945 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado da Bahia – SEFAZ  
 Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 2ª Av. nº 250 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia – Salvador, Bahia, Brasil 
CEP: 41.746-900 
 
Facsimile ++(55.71) 3115-2408 
 
Departamento de Infra-estrutura de Transportes da Bahia 
Av. Luiz Viana Filho, 4ª Av. nº 445 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia – Salvador, Bahia, Brasil 
CEP: 41.750-300 
 
Facsimile ++(55.71) 3115-2289 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do Ministério do Planejamento 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K, 5º andar 
CEP 70.040-906, Brasília – DF, Brasil 
 
Facsimile ++(55.61) 3225-4022 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
By /s/ Jaques Wagner 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase effective use of the Borrower’s road 
infrastructure, through: (a) rehabilitation and maintenance of key sections of the 
Borrower’s paved road network; and (b) provision of support for institutional 
improvements in the Borrower’s road sector, while fostering greater integration among 
the Borrower’s regions and with the rest of the country. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1: Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Carrying out of projects consisting of rehabilitation, resurfacing, and 
environmental rehabilitation works on about 2,000 kilometers (or approximately 15% of 
the Borrower’s paved roads network) of particular sections of the Borrower’s paved road 
network that have been identified as eligible road sections on the basis of relevant criteria 
under the Project and PELTBAHIA, including, inter alia, related engineering studies, 
designs, environmental and social assessments, and supervision services (the “Sub-
projects”).  
 
Part 2: Institutional Strengthening
A. 
Strengthening of DERBA’s institutional capacity, through the provision of 
technical assistance, operational support (equipment and software) and training of staff 
for, inter alia: 
(i) 
implementing and expanding the scope of the Borrower’s road 
administration training program;  
 
(ii) 
strengthening of DERBA’s planning and monitoring capacity;  
 
(iii) 
optimization of DERBA’s information system, especially in the 
following areas: data collection, supervision of civil and environmental 
works, monitoring of assets’ condition evolution, and provision of 
technical support in situ;
(iv) 
establishment and operation of DERBA’s Quality Group;  
 
(v) 
strengthening of DERBA’s capacity in managing impacts of its 
investment programs on society and the environment;  
 
7
(vi) 
contributing 
to 
DERBA’s technical 
development, through 
the 
undertaking of studies to, inter alia:
define policy, structure 
implementation strategies and undertake pilot projects to manage 
municipal road networks, on the basis, inter alia, of low-cost 
technologies, as well as improve the offer of transport services for the 
rural poor; and  
 
(vii) 
providing support to the PCU in handling the Project’s reporting, 
procurement and financial management aspects. 
 
B. 
Strengthening of SEINFRA’s institutional capacity, through the provision of 
technical assistance, operational support (equipment and software) and training of staff 
for, inter alia, the consolidation and gradual implementation of the Borrower’s 
PELTBAHIA program. 
C. 
Strengthening of SEI’s institutional capacity, through the provision of technical 
assistance, operational support (equipment and software) and training of staff for, inter 
alia, optimizing the role of transport services as a tool to promote regional and local 
development and economic growth and the provision of basic services. 
 
D. 
Strengthening of AGERBA’s institutional capacity, through the provision of 
technical assistance, operational support (equipment and software) and training of staff 
for, inter alia, consolidating its normative regulations, developing analysis systems to 
supervise concessionaires’ activities, designing and implementing a technical training 
program, and supporting the preparation of feasibility studies for pilot public-private 
partnerships. 
 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Agreements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower, through SEINFRA, 
shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to DERBA by means of a subsidiary 
agreement executed between the Borrower and DERBA, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank (the “Subsidiary Agreement”), which includes, inter alia, the 
following:  
 
(a) 
the Borrower’s obligation to make available to DERBA, through 
budgetary allocations, the proceeds of the Loan to facilitate the carrying 
out of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower’s obligation to delegate the execution of the Project to 
DERBA, and to create all the necessary conditions for DERBA to 
comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, including 
the overall monitoring and coordination of Project implementation; 
(c) 
DERBA’s obligation to use the Loan funds transferred to it exclusively 
for the purposes of the Project; 
(d)  
DERBA’s obligation to carry out Parts 1 and 2.A of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, procurement, auditing, environmental and 
social standards and practices;  
(e) 
DERBA’s obligation to comply with detailed monitoring, evaluation and 
reporting requirements as set forth in the Operational Manual; and  
(f) 
DERBA’s obligation to enter into the agreements referred to in 
paragraph 2, 3 and 4 of this Section I.A. 
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Parts 2.B, 2.C and 2.D of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause DERBA to comply with the terms and conditions of the 
participation agreements with SEINFRA (the “SEINFRA Participation Agreement”), SEI 
(the “SEI Participation Agreement”), and AGERBA (the “AGERBA Participation 
Agreement”), which include, inter alia, SEINFRA, SEI and AGERBA’s obligation to 
provide technical assistance to DERBA for carrying out, respectively, Part 2.B, 2.C and 
2.D of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
9
administrative, financial, procurement, auditing, environmental and social standards and 
practices. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SEINFRA, shall ensure that DERBA, SEI and AGERBA 
each exercise their rights and comply with their obligations under the SEI Participation 
Agreement and the AGERBA Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that neither DERBA, 
SEI, nor AGERBA assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce its rights under such 
agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through SEINFRA, shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement and the SEINFRA Participation Agreement, 
and shall ensure that DERBA complies with its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce its rights under such 
agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
maintain, until completion of the Project, a unit within DERBA, to be responsible 
for the overall coordination of the Project (the “PCU”), such PCU to have staffing, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including inter alia, the following 
responsibilities: 
 
(a) 
overall planning, coordination and monitoring of Project activities; 
 
(b) 
supervision of the relevant DERBA’s departments in charge of 
rehabilitation and maintenance planning, engineering project reviews and 
the preparation of the technical parts of procurement documents; 
 
(c) 
supervision of DERBA’s Project procurement and contracting of the 
required civil works, goods and consultant’s services; 
 
(d) 
review and clearance of all the contracts necessary for Project execution; 
 
(e) 
carrying out of the financial management of the Project, including 
without limitation the: (i) support to DERBA in processing payments for 
activities under the Project; (ii) issuance of financial statements and 
reports; and (iii) preparation and maintenance of administrative, 
procurement and financial records; 
10
(f) 
preparation and submission to the Bank of: (i) disbursement requests; 
and, (ii) Project information and Project management reports in 
accordance with the format established in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(g) 
provision of assistance and documentation to external independent 
auditors. 
 
2. 
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a unit within DERBA, to be 
responsible for the monitoring, evaluation and improvement of the quality of DERBA’s 
road programs under Part 1 of the Project (including Sub-projects) from a technical and 
managerial point of view (the “Quality Group”), such Quality Group to have staffing, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including inter alia, the following 
responsibilities: 
 
(a) 
provision of advise on improving the efficiency of the Borrower’s road 
investment programs; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out of technical audits on the performance of the programs, 
engineering and civil works under Part 1 of the Project (including Sub-
projects), and on the performance of entities involved in the execution of 
such programs and activities, on the basis of indicators (the 
“Performance Indicators”) as set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
 
3. 
ensure that road maintenance and rehabilitation activities to be supported by the 
Project take place within the existing road Rights-Of-Way (ROW) and at the sites 
identified and selected for the carrying out of road civil works. 
 
C. 
Environmental and Social Provisions 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project, and each and every Sub-project, to be carried out in 
accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the EA, the Indigenous Peoples 
Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the procedures outlined in the 
Operational Manual (including provisions regarding protection of cultural property), 
when applicable. 
 
D. 
Operational Manual 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of a 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the “Operational Manual”), which shall detail the 
procedures and guidelines for the execution, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including, inter alia:
11
(j) 
the procedures, technical requirements and costing structure to be 
followed in the preparation of engineering designs for any Sub-
projects; 
 
(ii) 
the procedures to be followed for the identification and mitigation of 
potential environmental and social impacts;  
 
(iii) 
the procedures for prior review and approval by the Bank on any 
proposed Sub-projects;  
 
(iv) 
Project procurement and financial management requirements and 
procedures;  
 
(v)  
the Performance Indicators to be used for Project monitoring and 
evaluation; and 
 
(vi)  
the functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff composition of 
the PCU and the Quality Group.  
 
The Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual. In case 
of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and those of the 
Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
E. 
Sub-projects 
 
1. 
Prior to initiating any bidding procedure for works under a Sub-project, the 
Borrower shall cause DERBA to submit to the Bank, for its review and approval, the 
following information in respect of each Sub-project, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, and in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual: 
(a) a detailed description of how the relevant Sub-project meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual; (b) the related engineering design and cost estimate; (c) 
an environmental management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the Sub-project, which 
shall be based on the EA for the Project; (d) when applicable, an action plan for 
involuntary resettlement of the population affected by the Sub-project, to be prepared in 
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework; (e) when applicable, an indigenous 
people development plan prepared with the affected indigenous group in accordance with 
the Indigenous People Development Framework; and (f) such other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request. 
2. 
Prior to initiating works under any Sub-project, the Borrower shall cause 
DERBA to submit to the Bank for its review and approval evidence that the 
corresponding environmental permits required for the execution of the works planned 
under the proposed Sub-project have been issued. 
12
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DERBA to ensure that any contractors that will carry 
out civil works under each of the Sub-projects shall perform their work in accordance 
with the technical, environmental and social practices for the Project, as presented in the 
EA. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DERBA to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause DERBA to, at the earliest of: (a) June 30, 2009; or (b) 
the point when fifty percent (50%) of the Loan amount has been disbursed, carry out a 
review with the Bank on the overall progress in the execution of the Project, including the 
Sub-projects, and set out the measures and take any remedial action as a result of such 
review, as agreed with the Bank (the “Mid-term Review”). 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DERBA to, by August 30 of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank for its review, the Borrower’s draft investment 
program for its road sub-sector (including Sub-projects) for the subsequent year (the 
Investment Program), including an estimate of the expenditures and sources of funds for 
such program. The Borrower shall cause DERBA to take into account the review and 
opinion of the Bank in its preparation and implementation of the final Investment 
Program. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall take, and cause each of DERBA, SEINFRA, SEI and 
AGERBA to take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project, 
including the Sub-projects, and the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the reviews provided for in this Section and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
 
13
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DERBA to maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause DERBA to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of 
the Project Report, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
relevant semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DERBA to have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.  All goods, works and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
14
consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following 
 
additional procedures: 
 
(i) contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to 
be based on price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into 
account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, 
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in 
the invitation to bid; 
 
(ii) whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall 
be advertised in at least one newspaper of national circulation 
in Brazil; 
 
(iii) the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-
ventures (consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be 
approved in advance by the Bank in each case; 
 
(iv) the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the 
contract prices; and 
 
(v)  the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase 
or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and 
related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
(b) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
15
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality–based Selection 
 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5. and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants  
 
(d) Single-Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (i) all contracts for goods or 
works procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; (ii) the first two 
contracts for works procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; (iii) the first 
two contracts for goods procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; (iv) the 
first two contracts for goods procured on the basis of Shopping; (v) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost more than the equivalent of 
$200,000; and (vi) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual 
consultant estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000. All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
16
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) Works  for Sub-projects 
75,600,000 
50% 
 
(2) Goods 
3,000,000 
100% 
 
(3) Services 
13,800,000 
84% 
 
(4) Unallocated  
7,600,000  
 
 
(5) Front-end Fee 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.08 (c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed ten million Dollars ($10,000,000) equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after December 14, 2005 and in 
no case more than 12 months before the date of this Agreement, for Eligible 
Expenditures.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
17
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
Beginning December 15, 2011  
through December 15, 2022 
4.17 % 
On June 15, 2023 
4.09 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of t7he Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
18
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
19
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“AGERBA” means Agência Estadual de Regulação de Serviços Públicos de 
 
Energia, Transportes e Comunicações da Bahia, the Borrower’s Energy, Transport 
 
and Communication Services Regulatory Agency, created by Law No. 7.314, 
dated May 19, 1998 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette N° 16.816 
 
on May 20, 1998, as amended to the date of this Agreement, or its successor or 
 
successors thereto. 
 
2. 
“AGERBA Participation Agreement” means the agreement with AGERBA 
 
referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated June 8, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 
 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
5. 
“DERBA” means Departamento de Infra-Estrutura de Transportes da Bahia, the 
 
Borrower’s Department for Transport Infrastructure, as organized within 
 
SEINFRA, restructured through Law No. 8.250 April 17, 2002 and published in 
 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette N° 17.950 on April 18, 2002, as amended to the 
 
date of this Agreement, or its successor or successors thereto. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the Borrower’s assessment, dated 
 
November 2005, of the Project environmental impacts, which identifies the 
 
existing environmental conditions and the potential direct and indirect 
 
environmental impacts from the carrying out of the Project, and recommends 
 
mitigation measures for each negative impact identified, as well as measures for 
 
enhancing each identified positive impact. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
8. 
“Indigenous Peoples Framework” means the indigenous peoples policy 
 
framework of the Borrower, dated December 2005, and furnished to the Bank on 
 
December 13, 2005. 
 
9. 
“Investment Program” means the Borrower’s program referred to in Section II.A.3 
 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Mid-term Review” means the review referred to in Section II.A.2 of Schedule 2 to 
 
this Agreement. 
20
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 
 
to this Agreement, dated March 14, 2006, as the same may be amended from 
 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“Participation Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
 
I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“PCU” means Unidade de Coordenação do Programa (UCP), the unit referred to 
 
in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, established pursuant to the 
 
Portaria No.265, dated November 10, 2005, and published in the Borrower’s 
 
Official Gazette No. 18.964 on November 11, 2005, as amended to the date of 
 
this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“PELTBAHIA” means Programa Estadual de Logística de Transportes, 
 
Caminhos para o Desenvolvimento, 2004, the Transport Logistics State Program 
 
prepared by the Borrower in 2004, with the objective of defining an intervention 
 
strategy to improve the Borrower’s regional integration and improve the 
 
efficiency of its roads and transport logistical arrangements. 
 
15. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Section I.B.2 (b) of 
 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“PREMAR” means Programa de Restauração e Manutenção de Rodovias, the 
 
Borrower’s Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program, structured following 
 
the strategic directions given in the PELTBAHIA. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
 
dated September 23, 2005 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Quality Group” means the Núcleo de Qualidade, the unit referred to in 
 
Section.I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established pursuant to the 
 
Portaria No.266, dated November 10, 2005, and published in the Borrower’s 
 
Official Gazette No. 18.964 on November 11, 2005, as amended to the date of 
 
this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s document dated 
 
December, 2005, and furnished to the Bank on December 13, 2005, specifying the 
 
population resettlement policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements, 
 
procurement arrangements and design criteria that shall apply to the preparation 
21
 
and carrying out of the action plans for the resettlement of population under Sub-
 
projects. 
 
21. 
“Rights-Of-Way” or “ROW” means the paved strip and the entire area legally 
 
owned by the Borrower, reserved for the construction, operation and maintenance 
 
of the roadside, including deposits, borrow sites, materials treatment areas, 
 
quarries, access roads and facilities provided for Project workers. 
 
22. 
“Secretariat of National Treasury” means the Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional,
the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National Treasury. 
 
23. 
“SEI” means Superintendência de Estudos Econômicos e Sociais, the Borrower’s 
 
Center for Economic and Social Studies as organized within SEPLAN (as herein 
 
defined), as restructured by Law No. 9.513, dated June 6, 2005 and published in 
 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette N° 18.857 on June 7, 2005, as amended to the 
 
date of this Agreement, or its successor or successors thereto; 
 
24. 
“SEI Participation Agreement” means the agreement with SEI referred to in 
 
Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated June 8, 2006. 
 
25. 
“SEINFRA” means Secretaria de Infra-Estrutura, the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
 
Infrastructure, created by Law No. 7.435, dated May 19, 1998 and published in 
 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette N° 16.997 on December 31, 1998, as amended to 
 
the date of this Agreement, or its successor or successors thereto; 
 
26. 
“SEINFRA Participation Agreement” means the agreement with SEINFRA 
 
referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, dated June 8, 2006. 
 
27. 
“SEPLAN” means Secretaria de Planejamento, the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
 
Planning, or its successor or successors thereto; 
 
28. 
“Sub-project” means any project, selected in accordance with the provisions of the 
 
Operational Manual and approved by the Bank, to be carried out by eligible 
 
contractors, and consisting of the activities described in Part 1 of the Project; and 
 
29. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of 
 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement dated June 8, 2006, pursuant to which the 
 
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to DERBA. 
 
