CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7449-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(State Modernization II Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 28, 2007 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7449-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 28, 2007, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  
 
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.06. The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
2
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower, through CCO, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and the Operational Manual. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness   
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no   
 
case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which   
 
expire on November 28, 2008. 
 
3
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Production. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1086AAB, Buenos Aires, Argentina 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
MINISTERIO DE         121942-AR 
 
(54 11) 4349-8815 
DE ECONOMIA Y  
PRODUCCION 
Baires  
  
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
4
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By/s/ Martín Lousteau 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the strengthening of CCO’s capacity to: 
(i) engage in organizational strengthening in selected public sector management areas within the 
CCO; (ii) design a state modernization strategy, promote change management, and monitor and 
evaluate selected Borrower’s programs and projects related to national priority policies; and 
(iii)  promote the design and consolidation of key public sector management systems under the 
CCO’s mandate, including e-government, procurement, human resources management, and 
quality management; and (b) support the knowledge and capacity-building of ANDI. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Institutional Strengthening of CCO
(a) 
Strengthening of CCO’s organizational strategy, through, inter alia:
(i) the design of an institutional strategy for the CCO, through, inter alia, the carrying 
out of an assessment of its mandate, organizational and functional capacity, 
processes and performance metrics; 
 
(ii) the strengthening of its state modernization strategy, based on the carrying out of 
assessments of current state modernization initiatives supported by the Project 
and international best practices; and  
 
(iii) the development of change management tools, through the engagement of public and 
private sector institutions, civil society organizations, the Borrower’s provinces 
and municipalities, and other relevant stakeholders, so as to promote the use of 
public sector management systems (including e-government, procurement, 
human resources management, and quality management) at the federal level, as 
well as their dissemination and promotion at the provincial and municipal levels.  
 
(b) 
Strengthening of CCO’s monitoring and evaluation capacity, through, inter alia:
(i) 
the design of a technical arrangement between the CCO and the Borrower’s other 
ministries for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of public policies, and 
thereafter implementation of the same;  
 
(ii) 
(A) the design of systems for the monitoring and evaluation of the Borrower’s 
programs and projects related to national priority policies, including the design of 
methodologies for the identification of said programs and projects; and (B) the 
strengthening of monitoring and  results-based management tools; 
 
(iii) 
technical support to the CCO for the design and coordination of pilot programs to 
promote the implementation of the monitoring tools mentioned in (ii) (B) above 
in the Borrower’s other ministries and the Borrower’s Congress; and 
 
6
(iv) 
institutional strengthening of the DINAPPFE, including the carrying out of an 
assessment of the consultants hired by Bank-funded projects, and the design of a 
strategy based on the results of said assessment. 
 
(c) 
Strengthening of ANDI, through, inter alia:
(i) 
knowledge-building and –sharing, through the development of a methodology for 
a systematic and comparable ground assessment of selected productive sectors 
and clusters which have significant development potential, and the carrying out 
of assessments of each selected sectors and clusters focusing on the identification 
of opportunities for innovation;  
 
(ii) 
the promotion of Argentina as an attractive place to invest;  
 
(iii) 
the strengthening of the linkages between investment promotion and innovation; 
and 
 
(iv) 
the strengthening of ANDI’s  staff on investment promotion. 
 
Part 2: Strengthening Key Public Sector Management Systems
(a) 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s E-Government system, through, inter alia:
(i)  
the improvement of the e-government enabling environment for public sector 
modernization within the existing policy framework on e-government;  
 
(ii)  
the strengthening of e-government coordination mechanisms, including the 
installation of a safe room (sala-cofre), all aimed to ensure an integrated, secure, 
and paperless administration by digitalizing and simplifying government 
procedures and information channels; and  
 
(iii) 
the improvement of the Borrower’s portal (www.argentina.gov.ar) and the 
implementation of a federal-level call center as single access point for citizens for 
government services. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s procurement system, through, inter alia:
(i)  
the promotion and the implementation of the SECOP throughout the Borrower’s 
federal administration, and the strengthening of Argentina Compra;  
 
(ii)  
the carrying out of outreach and training activities aimed at increasing the base of 
bidders;  
 
(iii) 
the development and implementation of integrity agreements (Pactos de 
Integridad) to be signed between the Borrower (through its relevant agencies 
and/or entities)  and bidders  for purposes of enhancing the transparency and 
impartiality of the procurement process and the supervision of contract 
execution; and  
 
7
(iv)  
the design and implementation of cost-reduction programs through “quick gains” 
methodologies. 
 
(c) 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s human resource management systems, through, inter 
alia:
(i) 
the design of common rules and compensation standards throughout the federal 
administration;  
 
(ii) 
the formulation of detailed job descriptions (nomenclador de puestos) and career 
paths for common federal civil service positions;  
 
(iii) 
the expansion of the coverage of the Borrower’s centralized personnel registry 
(Sistema de Información de Personal (SINFO)) to include all federal civilian 
employees, and the definition of basic personnel information to be standardized 
and maintained electronically in the Legajo Único de Personal Informatizado 
(LUPI) system; and 
 
(iv) 
the strengthening of the capacity of the CCO’s National Training Institute 
(Instituto Nacional de la Administración Pública (INAP)) to design, implement, 
monitor and evaluate learning courses, on the public sector management systems 
supported under the Project. 
 
(d) 
(i)  
Strengthening of the Borrower’s quality management system, through, inter alia:
(A)  
the implementation of new mechanisms to improve the definition and 
 
dissemination of indicators, quality standards and benchmarks for the 
 
Citizens Charter Program; and 
 
(B)  
the expansion of instruments for users’ feedback, such as citizen’s report 
 
card mechanisms.  
 
(ii) 
Strengthening of access to information, through, inter alia, the enhancement of  
citizens’ access to information as provided by the Borrower’s Decree No. 
1172/2003, including  the design of an electronic platform.  
 
Part 3: Project Management
Operation and maintenance of the PIU, for purposes of assisting the CCO in, inter alia,
the coordination and implementation of the Project. 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
(a)   
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter operate and maintain, at all times 
during Project implementation and within the State Modernization Directorate, 
the PIU with a structure, functions and responsibilities set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
(b)   
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project coordinator (Coordinador General), and 
comprised of professional and administrative staff, all in numbers and with terms 
of reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank. 
(c) 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall, prior to the carrying out of any Project 
activity which requires the participation of a given Borrower’s agency and/or 
entity, enter into a separate arrangement (convenio marco) with such agency 
and/or entity, the terms and conditions of which shall include, inter alia, the 
obligation of such agency and/or entity to undertake all necessary actions to 
enable the Borrower to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall, prior to the commencement of each calendar year during 
Project implementation, create, and thereafter maintain throughout each said 
calendar year of Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in the 
relevant annual budget in order to keep track of the corresponding expenditures 
incurred during Project implementation. 
2. 
(a)  
The Borrower, through the CCO, shall, prior to the carrying out of the small 
 
works under Part 2 (a) (ii) of the Project, carry out an environmental screening of 
 
said works, in a manner and on terms acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b)  
immediately thereafter, implement and/or cause to be implemented, all 
environmental mitigatory measures identified in said environmental screening, if 
any, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of Project indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester of each year (starting with 
9
the first calendar semester of the year 2008) and 60 days after the end of the second 
calendar semester of each year. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section and as part of the 
information to be included in the Project Report, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of first calendar semester of each year 
(starting with the first calendar semester of the year 2008) and 60 days after the end of 
the second calendar semester of each year, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-Consultant 
Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
 Special Provisions.   Without limitation to the other provisions of this Section III, the 
following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, works and 
Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
(a) 
procurement of goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services 
 
(in respect of firms) shall be carried out using standard bidding documents  and 
 
standard requests for quotations/proposals, all acceptable to the Bank, which 
 
shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision; 
10 
 
(b) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the procurement of 
 
goods and Non-Consultant Services;  
(c) 
after the public opening of bids for goods and Non-Consultant Services, 
 
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and 
 
recommendations concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to bidders or other 
 
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract 
 
award. In addition, bidders and/or other persons not officially concerned with 
 
said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids; 
(d) 
after the public opening of consultants’ proposals, information relating to the 
 
examination, clarification and evaluation of proposals and recommendations 
 
concerning awards, shall not be disclosed to consultants or other persons not 
 
officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract award 
 
(except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). In 
 
addition, consultants and/or other persons not officially concerned with said 
 
process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other consultants’ 
 
proposals; 
(e)    
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a 
 
representative in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine 
 
suppliers, contractors or consultants; 
(f)  
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
 
expressions of interest and the pertinent summary of the evaluation reports of 
 
bids and proposals of all goods, Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ 
 
services, as the case may be, shall be published in the web page of the 
 
Borrower’s 
Office 
of 
National 
Procurement 
(Oficina 
Nacional 
de 
 
Contrataciones), and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The bidding period 
 
shall be counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of 
 
the availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid 
 
opening;  
(g) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and Non-
 
Consultant Services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding 
 
procedures; 
(h) 
references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by 
 
the Borrower in determining if the bidder in respect of goods and Non-Consultant 
 
Services whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has the 
 
capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in the bid, 
 
as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement 
 
Guidelines. The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement 
 
Guidelines (including the limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to 
11 
 
contracts for goods and Non-Consultant Services to be procured under National 
 
Competitive Bidding procedures;  
(i) 
witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or 
 
contract award; 
(j) 
the Borrower shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans 
 
Execution System (SEPA) with the information contained in the initial 
 
Procurement Plan within 30 days after such plan has been approved by the Bank; 
 
and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least biannually, or as required by the 
 
Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and shall 
 
supply the Bank’s Procurement Plans Execution System with the information 
 
contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; 
(k) 
consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities; and 
(l) 
the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
 
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower in connection with the 
 
contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with 
 
the proceeds of the Loan. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs A.4 
above and B.2 below, goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement.
The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for 
goods, works and Non-Consultant Services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
12 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Single Source Selection 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
selection of individual consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(1) Goods, works, Operating 
Costs, Non-Consultant 
Services, consultants’ services  
and Training for Parts 1 and 2 
of the Project 
 
16,200,000 
90% of Eligible Expenditures 
paid by the Borrower during 
the calendar year 2008; 80% 
of Eligible Expenditures paid 
by the Borrower during the 
calendar year 2009; 73% of  
Eligible Expenditures paid by 
the 
Borrower 
during 
the 
calendar year 2010; and 70% 
of Eligible Expenditures paid 
by the Borrower during the 
calendar year 2011 
 
13 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(2) Goods, Non-Consultant 
Services, Operating Costs, 
consultants’ services provided 
by a firm and Training for Part 
3 of the Project 
 
200,000
90% of Eligible Expenditures 
paid by the Borrower during 
the calendar year 2008; 80% 
of Eligible Expenditures paid 
by the Borrower during the 
calendar year 2009; 73% of  
Eligible Expenditures paid by 
the 
Borrower 
during 
the 
calendar year 2010; and 70% 
of Eligible Expenditures paid 
by the Borrower  during the 
calendar year 2011 
 
(3) Consultants’ services 
provided by individuals for 
Part 3 of the Project 
 
1,500,000 
 
 
100% 
(4) Premium for Interest-Rate 
Caps and Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.08 
(c) 
of 
this 
Agreement 
 
(5) Front-end Fee 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.04 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
(6) Unallocated 
 
2,100,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
20,000,000 
 
For purposes of this table: 
 
(a)  
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an 
 
annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would not have been 
 
incurred by the Borrower absent the Project, for Project administration costs of 
 
the PIU (including office rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment, 
 
non-durable goods; and 
(b) 
 the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower, as approved by the Bank on the basis of an 
annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs 
and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees, 
and rental of training facilities and equipment under the Project. 
14 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
 
prior to the date of this Agreement but on or after January 1, 2008 (but in no case more 
 
than one year prior to the date of this Agreement) for Eligible Expenditures for 
 
Categories (1), (2) and (3).  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each January 1 and July 1 
 
Beginning July 1, 2012  
 
through January 1, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
16 
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
17 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
 “ANDI” means the National Investment Development Agency (Agencia Nacional de 
Desarrollo de Inversiones), a decentralized bureau within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Production. 
2. 
“Argentina 
Compra” 
means 
the 
procurement 
portal 
of 
SECOP 
(www.argentinacompra.gov.ar). 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“CCO” means the Borrower’s Chief of Cabinet Office (Jefatura de Gabinete de 
Ministros). 
5. 
“Citizen’s Charter Program” or “CCP” means the Citizen’s Charter Program (Carta 
Compromiso con el Ciudadano) established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 
229/2000 dated March 8, 2000 published in the Borrower’s National Official Bulletin on 
March 14, 2000, to set quality standards for the provision of public services by 
participating government agencies. 
6. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
7. 
“DINAPPFE” means the Dirección Nacional de Programas y Proyectos con 
Financiamiento Externo, the CCO’s National Directorate of Programs and Projects with 
External Financing. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
9. 
“Non-Consultant Services” means services under the Project to be bid and contracted 
on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs, including (without 
limitation) logistics, organization of seminars, workshops, travel, printing services. 
 
10. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable to the Bank, dated 
April 27, 2007 which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the institutional and administrative 
structure of the PIU, including its functions and responsibilities; (ii) the Project’s chart of 
accounts, internal controls, and budgeting, accounting and financial reporting systems; 
(iii) the format of: (A) the unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II. B. 
2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) the Financial Statements; (iv) the terms of 
reference for carrying out the Project audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; (v) the Project’s flow of funds structure; (vi) the Project indicators; and (vii) 
the Project’s administrative and procurement procedures, as said manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
18 
 
11. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph 1(a) of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
April 16, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“SECOP” means the electronic procurement system set forth in the Borrower’s 
Presidential Decree No. 1818 of December 6, 2006, published in the Borrower’s National 
Official Bulletin on December 11, 2006. 
 
15. 
“State Modernization Directorate” means the Dirección Nacional Alterna del 
Proyecto de Modernización del Estado established within CCO pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 1723/2005 dated December 29, 2005 published in the Borrower’s 
National 
Official 
Bulletin 
on 
January 
18, 
2006.
 
