CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4848 KZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Ust-Kamenogorsk Environmental Remediation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 2, 2008  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4848 KZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 2, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of  twenty four million two hundred 
ninety thousand Dollars (US$24,290,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-
end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
- 2 -
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through CWR, in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated 
or waived without the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
(b) 
The law, decree, charter or other founding documents of CWR, including 
any legal or regulatory enactments upon which such instruments are 
based, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CWR to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs.  
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
CWR has appointed the PMU Project Coordinator, under the terms of reference 
and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
- 3 -
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
11 Pobedy Street 
 
Astana 010000 
 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
265126 (FILIN)  
(7) (3172) 717785 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By: /s/ Bolat Zhamishev 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Shigeo Katsu 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) prevent the groundwater contamination 
plume’s further migration towards the residential areas, the city’s sources of drinking 
water and eventually into Irtysh River; and (b) strengthen institutional mechanisms for 
groundwater quality monitoring to enable control of ongoing groundwater pollution from 
local municipal and industrial sources. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Containment of High-Priority Sources of Groundwater Contamination
Provision of design, civil works, construction supervision and goods for the 
rehabilitation of selected industrial contaminated sites, namely: (a) conic waste pile No. 6 
Ust-Kamenogorsk Lead-zinc Industrial Complex; (b) waste pile No. 6 of UMP; (c) waste 
pile No.1 UK Heat Power Plant;  (d) waste pile No. 1 Titanic and Magnesium Industrial 
Complex; (e) Ash dump No. 2a and 2b UK Heat Power Plant; (f) waste pile of 
experimental Lead-zinc Industrial Complex; and (g) sludge storage unit of condenser 
plant. 
Part B: Remediation of Current Contaminated Groundwater Sites
1. 
Provision of design, works, construction supervision and goods for the 
installation of the pump-and-treat groundwater remediation system, including the well 
field, pumping systems and treatment process, to remove contaminants from the 
subsurface by treating the contaminated groundwater that flows from beneath the City of 
Ust-Kamenogorsk Central Industrial Complex towards the residential areas, the location 
of the drinking wells and the Irtysh River.  
2. 
Implementation of the groundwater sampling and contamination analysis 
program for the detailed design and the operation of the groundwater treatment system, 
including provision of new groundwater monitoring wells for sampling. 
- 5 -
Part C: Project Management and Monitoring
Provision of financial and technical assistance to the PMU for: (a) Project 
management, procurement and financial management; and (b) monitoring and evaluation 
of Project impacts, including implementation of EMP for construction activities under the 
Project.   
 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall assign the main responsibility for Project implementation to 
CWR and shall maintain, during execution of the Project, the PMU under CWR with the 
composition, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank.  The PMU shall 
be responsible for regular management of Project activities, financial management, 
procurement, contract supervision and monitoring and reporting. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, within three (3) months of the Project effectiveness, 
establish and thereafter maintain, during execution of the Project, a Project Supervisory 
Council, with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be 
responsible for overseeing Project implementation and coordinating Project activities 
with local authorities, business community and other stakeholders. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause CWR to submit any proposal for employment or 
dismissal of the PMU staff and consultants for the Bank review and approval. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall make available for the purposes of the carrying out of the 
Project, an amount of forty five million four hundred twenty one thousand five hundred 
and two Dollars ($45,421,502) to be utilized under the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement.  This amount includes an amount of twenty nine million six hundred 
twenty two thousand and forty seven Dollars ($29,622,047) for the groundwater 
treatment operations referred to in paragraph 5(b) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) CWR’s annual budget is sufficient to enable 
CWR to perform its obligations under the Project; and (b) adequate funding is available 
for all operating and maintenance costs of the groundwater treatment facility under Part 
B.2 of the Project for a period of fifteen (15) years upon commissioning of the 
groundwater treatment system. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than two (2) months after the Effectiveness Deadline, prepare 
and submit to the Bank, an Operational Manual and the Project implementation plan, in 
format and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and shall implement the Project in 
accordance with such Operational Manual and the Project implementation plan;  
(b) 
take all necessary measures to ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
- 7 -
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Project Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
- 8 -
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Technical 
 
Services  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and technical services required for the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures 
subject to the following additional procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods, works and technical services.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth in the 
 
attachment to this Schedule 2 
(b)   
Shopping 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  
Least-Cost Selection 
(b)  
Consultant Qualifications 
(c)  
Individual Consultant Selection 
(d)  
Single-Source Selection 
(e)  
Sole-Source Selection 
- 9 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
Works 
 
24,290,000 
 
70% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
24,290,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; and  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 30, 2013. 
 
- 10 -
Attachment to   
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding procedures of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
A. 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises
Government-owned enterprises on the territory of the Borrower shall be eligible 
to participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
 
B. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods acceptable to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents; 
 
(c) 
domestic preference should not be applied; and 
 
(d) 
contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall 
take place. 
 
D. 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (for example, more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
E. 
Cancellation of the Bidding Process
Non-recognition of a tender and soliciting new bids can be done only with the 
prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
G. 
Rejection of an Individual Bid
- 11 -
An individual bid shall be rejected only in the following cases: 
 
(a) 
the bidder is not qualified; 
 
(b) 
the bidder does not accept the correction of an arithmetical error in his 
bid by the Tender Commission of the procuring entity; and 
 
(c) 
the bidder is not responsive to the requirements of the bidding 
documents. 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
beginning August 15, 2012 
 
 
through August 15, 2023 
1,010,000 
 
On February 15, 2024 
 
1,060,000 
 
- 13 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“CWR” means Committee for Water Resources under the Ministry of 
Agriculture of the Borrower. 
4. 
“Environmental 
Management 
Plan” 
or 
“EMP” 
means 
adopted 
on 
September 8, 2005, No. 03-06/4151 by the Borrower, through the East 
Kazakhstan Oblast Territorial Department for Environment Protection, which 
sets forth agreed mitigation measures to be implemented and monitored under the 
Project. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
6. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual to be prepared by the Borrower 
pursuant to paragraph 6(a) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
describing procedures for implementation of the Project, consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement and with the national laws and regulations of the 
Borrower and including, inter alia: (i) procedures governing administrative, 
procurement, accounting, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation 
arrangements; and (ii) sample formats for annual reports; as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
7. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit within CWR which will have 
overall responsibility for Project preparation, implementation and coordination. 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 7, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs 
10. 
“Project Supervisory Council” means the council to be established by the 
Borrower, through the Ministry of Agriculture, and referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Section 
I 
of 
Schedule 
2 
to 
this 
Agreement.
 
