CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7524-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Liaoning Third Medium Cities Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 1, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 1, 2008, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred ninety one million 
Dollars ($191,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
3
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
party to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations thereunder. 
 
4
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar  
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Liaoning Province in improving the 
energy efficiency and environmental performance of heating and gas services in the 
Project areas of the Project Cities.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Centralized Heating Infrastructure
Construction and rehabilitation of centralized heating systems in the Project Cities, 
including:  
 
1. 
Benxi (Central Heating Supply): construction and/or rehabilitation of boiler 
plants, central heating networks, group substations and building level substations 
and provision of meters (including building level meters), auxiliary equipment, 
control and monitoring equipment, and plant management and maintenance 
equipment. 
 
2. 
Benxi (Steel Central Heating Supply): construction and/or rehabilitation of waste 
heat recovery systems including waste heat collectors, central heating networks, 
and pumping stations; and provision of auxiliary equipment, and plant operation 
and maintenance equipment. 
 
3. 
Benxi Nanfen (Central Heating Supply): construction and/or rehabilitation of 
boiler plants, central heating networks, group substations and building level 
substations; and provision of meters (including building level meters), auxiliary 
equipment, control and monitoring equipment, and plant management and 
maintenance equipment. 
 
4. 
Fushun (Power Plant Heating Network Expansion): construction and/or 
rehabilitation of central heating networks, group substations and building level 
substations; and provision of auxiliary equipment, and control and monitoring 
equipment. 
 
5. 
Gonchangling (Central Heating Supply): construction and/or rehabilitation of 
boiler plants, booster pump stations, central heating networks, group substations 
and building level substations; and provision of  meters (including building level 
meters), auxiliary equipment, control and monitoring equipment, and plant 
management and maintenance equipment.  
 
6. 
Haicheng (Central Heating Supply): construction and/or rehabilitation of boiler 
plants, central heating networks, group substations and building level substations; 
7
and provision of meters (including building level meters), auxiliary equipment, 
control and monitoring equipment, and plant management and maintenance 
equipment. 
 
7. 
Huludao Yangjiazhangzi (Central Heating Supply): construction and/or 
rehabilitation of boiler plants, central heating networks, group substations and 
building level substations; and provision of meters (including building level 
meters), auxiliary equipment, control and monitoring equipment, and plant 
management and maintenance equipment.  
 
8. 
Yingkou Dashiqiao (Central Heating Supply): construction and/or rehabilitation 
of boiler plants, central heating networks, group substations and building level 
substations; and provision of meters (including building level meters), auxiliary 
equipment, control and monitoring equipment, and plant management and 
maintenance equipment.  
 
9. 
Yingkou Economic Development Zone (Central Heating Supply): construction 
and/or rehabilitation of booster pump stations, central heating networks, group 
substations and building level substations, and provision of meters (including 
building level meters), auxiliary equipment, control and monitoring equipment, 
and plant management and maintenance equipment.  
 
10. 
Northern Yingkou (Central Heating Supply): construction and/or rehabilitation of 
central heating networks, booster pump stations, group substations and building 
level substations; and provision of meters (including building level meters), 
auxiliary equipment, control and monitoring equipment, and plant management 
and maintenance equipment.  
 
Part B: Urban Natural Gas Infrastructure
Construction and rehabilitation of urban gas infrastructure in Yingkou Municipality, 
including: (a) rehabilitation of natural gas transmission facilities; (b) rehabilitation and 
capacity expansion of natural gas storage equipment; and (c) rehabilitation and capacity 
expansion of gas distribution network.  
 
Part C: Institutional Development 
Strengthening Project Companies’ capacity to implement and manage the Project, 
including: 
(a) 
provision of technical assistance and training to the Project Companies (except 
for Yingkou Gas Company) with respect to: bidding documents preparation, 
engineering design review, Project management, Project monitoring and 
evaluation, equipment operation and maintenance; and monitoring of building 
level substations and building level heat meters; and   
8
(b) 
provision of technical assistance and training to Yingkou Gas Company with 
respect to: bidding documents preparation, engineering design review, Project 
management, Project monitoring and evaluation, and operation safety measures 
and procedures.  
 
9
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the following principal terms: 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including the Front-end Fee 
paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall be recovered over 
a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B to the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
seventy-five (75) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than 
seventy five (75) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
10
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a) National Competitive Bidding.
In addition, the procedures to be followed for 
National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
11
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except 
for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent each and for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or 
bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders 
between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating 
the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the 
bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no 
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time 
for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of 
such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
12
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to 
be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to 
offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for 
work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify 
the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide 
that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its 
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they can 
establish that they: (i) are legally and financially autonomous; (ii) 
operate under commercial law; and (iii) are not a dependent agency 
of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3). 
 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
13
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Single-source Selection 
(c) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (b) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (c) the 
first civil work contract and all contracts procured based on Direct Contracting, 
regardless of contract value thereof; (d) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (e) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured using 
Single-source Selection procedure, regardless of contract value thereof.   All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
With respect to 
each consulting contract not subject to the Bank’s prior review, prior to the 
selection of a consulting firm or an individual consultant, the Borrower shall 
furnish the terms of reference for said consulting firm or individual consultant to 
the Bank for its no-objection.    
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
14
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Part A.1 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works 
9,983,192 
39% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
23,920,000 
100% 
(2) Part A.2 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works 
14,203,618 
59% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
3,100,000 
100% 
(3)  Part A.3 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works 
2,057,504 
39% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
5,330,000 
100% 
(4) Part A.4 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works 
11,207,291 
60% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
4,480,000 
100% 
(5) Part A.5 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works  
          3,572,727 
34% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
10,290,000 
100% 
(6) Part A.6 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works 
4,354,321 
46% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
9,320,000 
100% 
(7) Part A.7 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works  
3,323,496 
40% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation)  
5,720,000 
100% 
(8) Part A.8 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works 
4,110,095 
40% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
13,610,000 
100% 
(9) Part A.9 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works 
15,017,886 
50% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
12,420,000 
100% 
(10) Part A.10 of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works  
21,332,870 
60% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
7,880,000 
100% 
15
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(11) Part B of the Project 
 
 
(a) Civil works 
989,500 
40% 
(b) Goods 
(including 
installation) 
3,080,000 
100% 
(12) Consultants services,   
training, 
workshops, 
and 
study tours under Part C of 
the Project  
1,220,000 
100% 
 
(13)   Front-end Fee 
477,500
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
191,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
 for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $21,317,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after October 15, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories of 
(1)(a) and (1)(b); (5)(a) and (5)(b); (8)(a) and (8)(b); (9)(a) and (9)(b); 
and (12); 
 
(b) 
for payments under, respectively, Categories (1)(a) and (1)(b); 
Categories (2)(a) and (2)(b); Categories (3)(a) and (3)(b); Categories 
(4)(a) and (4)(b); Categories (5)(a) and (5)(b); Categories (6)(a) and 
(6)(b); Categories (7)(a) and (7)(b), Categories (8)(a) and (8)(b),   
Categories (9)(a) and (9)(b), Categories (10)(a) and (10)(b), and 
Categories (11)(a) and (11)(b), until, with respect to each such case, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower and Liaoning of its receipt of a 
copy of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into between the Project 
City concerned and its Respective Project Company, satisfactory to the 
Bank and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Section I of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement;      
16
(c) 
for payments under, respectively, Categories (2)(a) and (2)(b); 
Categories (4)(a) and (4)(b); Categories(9)(a) and (9)(b); and Categories 
(10)(a) and (10)(b) until, with respect to each such case, the Bank shall 
have notified the Borrower and Liaoning of its receipt of a copy of a  
long-term heating supply contract satisfactory to the Bank entered into 
between each of Benxi Steel (Group) Heating Development Company, 
Ltd, Fushun Thermal Power Company Ltd, Yingkou EDZ Huayuan 
Heating Company Ltd, and Yingkou Heating Company and its respective 
heat supplier;     
 
(d) 
for payments under Categories (11)(a) and (11)(b) with respect to Part B 
of the Project, until the Bank shall have received satisfactory evidence 
showing that: (i) Yingkou Municipality has conducted a feasibility study 
for said Part of the Project satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) Yingkou 
Municipality has prepared and adopted an environmental management 
plan (including an emergency response plan) and a resettlement action 
plan if required pursuant to the Resettlement Policy Framework, all 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(e) 
for payments under Categories (1)(a) and (1)(b) until the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower and Liaoning of its receipt of a copy of a staffing 
plan satisfactory to the Bank prepared by the Benxi Hengze Heating 
Development Company Ltd. for implementing its Respective Part of the 
Project. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013.  
 
17
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each  April 15 and October 15: 
 
Beginning October 15, 2013  
through April 15 , 2038 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
18
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
19
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Benxi Hengze Heating Development Company Ltd.” means the limited liability 
company established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated August 10, 2006 
and to Business License No. 2105001300258 dated August 15, 2006, issued by 
Benxi Municipality Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(b) 
“Benxi Steel (Group) Heating Development Company Ltd.” means the state-
owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter 
dated December 25, 1998, and to Business License No. 2105001100290 dated  
December 25, 1998, issued by Benxi Municipality Industry and Commerce 
Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
(c) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(e) 
“Dashiqiao Hongyang Heating Company Ltd.” means the limited liability 
company 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
its 
Charter 
dated  
September 9, 2005, and to Business License No. 2108822300362 dated  
July 21, 2006, issued by Dashiqiao City Industry and Commerce Administrative 
Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(f) 
“Dashiqiao Urban Construction and Investment Company” means the limited 
liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated June 20, 
2007, and to Business License No. 210882004004454 dated July 9, 2007, issued 
by Dashiqiao Municipality Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, and 
any successor thereto. 
 
(g) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
(h) 
“Environmental Management Plans” means, collectively, the Environmental 
Management Plans each dated August 15, 2007 prepared, respectively, for  
20
Part A.1, Part A.2, Part A.3, Part A.4, Part A.5, Part A.6, Part A.7, Part A.8, Part 
A.9, Part A.10, and Part B of the Project, which said plans set out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of each said Part of the Project, as 
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation 
of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank and “Environmental Management Plan” means, individually, any of 
the Environmental Management Plans.  
 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of each of the Project Companies, covering 
the period of January 1 through December 31. 
 
(j) 
“FFUPO” means the Foreign Fund Utilization Project Office established under 
the Liaoning Provincial Development and Reform Commission and referred to in 
paragraph 1(a)(ii) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(k) 
“Fushun Thermal Power Company Ltd.” means the limited liability company 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
its 
Charter 
dated  
May 10, 2006, and to Business License No. 2104001300440 dated  
October 26, 2006, issued by Fushun Municipality Industry and Commerce 
Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
(l) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
(m) 
“Haicheng Hengye Heating Supply Co., Ltd.” means the limited liability 
company 
established 
and 
operating 
pursuant 
to 
its 
Charter 
dated  
September 26, 2007, and to Business License No. 210381009130531 dated  
September 28, 2007, issued by Haicheng City Industry and Commerce 
Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(n) 
“Huludao Yangjiazhangzi Economic Development Zone District Mudu Heating 
Company Ltd.” means the state-owned limited liability company established and 
operating pursuant to its Charter dated October 12, 2007, and to Business License 
No. 211402004006865 dated October 1, 2007, issued by Huludao City Industry 
and Commerce Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(o) 
“Liaoning” means the Borrower’s Liaoning Province, and any successor thereto.   
 
(p) 
“Liaoyang Gongchangling Qianglong Heating Company Limited” means the 
limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated  
April 19, 2007, and to Business License No. 2110001400398 dated  
21
April 29, 2007, issued by Liaoyang Municipality Industry and Commerce 
Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(q) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(r) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 1, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(s) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Liaoning of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(t) 
“Project Cities” means the Borrower’s municipalities of Benxi, Fushun, Yingkou, 
and Huludao and county-level cities of Yingkou EDZ and Dashiqiao each under 
the jurisdiction of Yingkou municipality, Haicheng under the jurisdiction of 
Anshan municipality, Gongchangling under the jurisdiction of Liaoyang 
municipality, and Yangzhajianzi under jurisdiction of Huludao municipality; all 
located in Liaoning Province, and any successors thereto; and a “Project City” 
means, individually, any of said Project Cities. 
 
(u) 
“Project Companies” means, collectively, Benxi Steel (Group) Heating 
Development Company Ltd, Benxi Hengze Heating Development Company Ltd, 
Dashiqiao Urban Construction and Investment Company,  Fushun Thermal 
Power Company Ltd, Liaoyang Gongchangling Qianglong Heating Company 
Limited, Haicheng Hengye Heating Supply Company Ltd., Huludao 
Yangjiazhangzi Economic Development Zone District Mudu Heating Company 
Ltd, Yingkou EDZ Huayuan Heating Company Ltd, Yingkou Heating Company, 
and Yingkou Gas Company; and “Project Company” means, individually, any of 
the Project Companies. 
 
(v) 
“Project Coordination Group” means the group referred in paragraph 1(a)(i) of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
(w) 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Liaoning and 
any successor thereto. 
 
(x) 
“Project Management Offices” means the offices referred to in paragraph 1(a)(iii) 
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
(y) 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, “Resettlement Action Plans” 
each dated December 2007, prepared respectively for Part A.1, Part A.3, Part 
22
A.6, Part A.7 and Part A.8 of the Project; which said plans set out the principles 
and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and the 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of 
each said Part of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement Action Plan” means any 
of the Resettlement Action Plans.  
 
(z) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the policy framework dated  
December 2007 adopted by each Project City, which sets out policies and 
procedures for acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, 
and guidelines for the preparation of resettlement action plans if necessary, as 
said policy framework may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
(aa) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Benxi Hengze Heating Development Company Ltd: Part A.1 of the 
Project. 
 
(ii) 
Benxi Steel Group Heating Development Company Ltd: Part A.2 and 
Part A.3 of the Project.   
 
(iii) 
Fushun Thermal Power Company Ltd:  Part A.4 of the Project. 
 
(iv) 
Liaoyang Gongchangling Qianglong Heating Company Limited:  
Part A.5 of the Project. 
 
(v) 
Haicheng Urban Construction Investment Company: Part A.6 of the 
Project. 
 
(vi) 
Huludao Yangjiazhangzi Economic Development Zone District Mudu 
Heating Company Ltd: Part A.7 of the Project. 
 
(vii) 
Dashiqiao Urban Construction and Investment Company: Part A.8 of the 
Project. 
 
(viii) 
Yingkou EDZ Huayuan Heating Company Ltd: Part A.9 of the Project.  
 
(ix) 
Yingkou Heating Company: Part A.10 of the Project. 
 
(x) 
Yingkou Gas Company: Part B of the Project. 
 
(xi) 
Project Implementing Entity: Part C of the Project. 
 
23
(bb) 
“Respective Project Company” means in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Benxi Municipality: Benxi Steel (Group) Heating Development 
Company Ltd. and Benxi Hengze Heating Development Company Ltd. 
 
(ii) 
Dashiqiao City: Dashiqiao Urban Construction and Investment 
Company. 
 
(iii) 
Fushun Municipality: Fushun Thermal Power Company Ltd. 
 
(iv) 
Gongchangling City: Liaoyang Gongchangling Qianglong Heating 
Company Limited. 
 
(v) 
Haicheng City: Haicheng Hengye Heating Supply Company Ltd. 
 
(vi) 
Huludao Municipality: Huludao Yangjiazhangzi Economic Development 
Zone District Mudu Heating Company Ltd. 
 
(vii) 
Yingkou Municpiality: Yingkou Heating Company and Yingkou Gas 
Company. 
 
(viii) 
Yingkou EDZ: Yingkou EDZ Huayuan Heating Company Ltd. 
 
(cc) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be entered 
into between each Project City and its Respective Project Company pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
supplements to said agreements; and a “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, 
individually, any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
 
(dd) 
“Yingkou EDZ” means the Yingkou Economic Development Zone. 
 
(ee) 
“Yingkou EDZ Huayuan Heating Company Ltd.” means the limited liability 
company established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated July 2, 2007, 
and to Business License No. 21080000401366 dated July 13, 2007 issued by 
Yingkou Municipality Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
(ff) 
“Yingkou Heating Company” means the state-owned enterprise established and 
operating pursuant to its Business License No. 2108001110375 dated May 13, 
2003, issued by Yingkou Municipality Industry and Commerce Administrative 
Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
(gg) 
“Yingkou Gas Company” means the state-owned enterprise established and 
operating pursuant to its Business License No. 2108001110889 dated April 22, 
24
2003, issued by Yingkou Municipality Industry and Commerce Administrative 
Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Loans of the Bank, dated July 1, 2005 
(as amended through February 12, 2008) are as follows: 
 
1. 
The first paragraph under Section 7.02 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank 
 
If any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this Section occurs 
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account. 
Such suspension shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to the 
suspension has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan 
Parties that such right to make withdrawals has been restored.” 
 
2. 
Paragraphs (c) and (l) under Section 7.02 are deleted in their entirety and 
paragraphs (d) through (m) under Section 7.02 are re-number accordingly. 
 
3. 
Paragraph (c) under Section 7.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
 Fraud; Corruption; Collusion; Coercion. At any time, the Bank: (i) 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount of 
expenditures under such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.” 
 
4. 
Paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) under Section 7.06 are modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Co-financing. The event specified in sub-paragraph (g)(ii)(B) of  
Section 7.02 has occurred, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g)(iii) of that 
Section. 
(d) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. Any event specified in 
paragraph (h) of Section 7.02 has occurred. 
25
(e) 
Condition of Borrower or Project Implementing Entity. Any event 
specified in sub-paragraph (j)(ii), (j)(iii), (j)(iv) or (j)(v) of Section 7.02 has 
occurred.” 
 
5. 
Paragraphs 3, 15, 16, 17, 18 under Appendix (Definitions) are modified to read 
as follows:  
 
“3. 
“Additional Event of Suspension” means any event of suspension 
specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 7.02(k).” 
 
“15. 
“Co-financier” means the financier (other than the Bank or the 
Association) referred to in Section 7.02(g) providing the Co-financing. If the 
Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financier, “Co-financier” refers 
separately to each of such financiers.” 
 
“16. 
“Co-financing” means the financing referred to in Section 7.02(g) and 
specified in the Loan Agreement provided or to be provided for the Project by the 
Co-financier. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financing, 
“Co-financing” refers separately to each of such financings.” 
 
“17. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to in  
Section 7.02(g) providing for the Co-financing.” 
 
“18. 
“Co-financing Deadline” means the date referred to in Section 7.02(g)(i) 
and specified in the Loan Agreement by which the Co-financing Agreement is to 
become effective. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such date, “Co-
financing Deadline” refers separately to each of such dates.” 
 
