CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4874 KZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Customs Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 2, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4874 KZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 2, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN  
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighteen million five hundred 
thousand Dollars ($18,500,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 (sixty) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due, and such non payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest paid by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the CCC in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The PSC, with a composition, resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been established by the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by 
the Borrower. 
 
4.02 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
11 Pobedy Street 
Astana 010000 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
265126 (FILIN)  
(7) (3172) 717785 
 
3
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By: /s/ Bolat Zhamishev 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Shigeo Katsu 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency, effectiveness, and 
accountability of the CCC in order to: (i) promote internationally acceptable practices for 
expeditious processing of international trade flows, so as to further integrate the country 
into the world economy and improve the investment climate and competitiveness; (ii) 
improve taxpayer compliance with the Customs Code and thereby increase revenue 
collection; and (iii) support transparency of customs operations to reduce the potential for 
corruption and increase predictability for traders. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I: Institutional Development, Governance, and Human Resource Management 
Provision of technical assistance, goods, and training to: (a) review the 
organizational structure of the CCC; (b) review the strategic planning methodology of the 
CCC to assist the establishment of a strategic planning unit; (c) develop service 
standards, review organizational performance, establish a modern management 
information system including the development of an online management center and 
executive support system; (d) review, redesign, develop, and implement a national 
integrity development plan within an effective anticorruption framework; (e) develop and 
implement a human resource management strategy, including implementation of a merit-
based human resource management system; (f) develop a comprehensive training strategy 
and curriculum; (g) prepare a comprehensive change management and continuous 
improvement strategy; and (h) implement a cost-based financial management framework 
to monitor the cost of customs services, and enhance current financial management 
processes and procedures relative to international best practice. 
 
Part II: Customs Operations
Provision of technical assistance, goods, and training to: (a) analyze legislation 
impacting the movements of vehicles and goods, to align current laws with major 
international instruments and best practices and prepare legislative amendments to 
support new systems and procedures; (b)  analyze and introduce legislation and 
regulations to improve coordination between customs and other departments involved in 
international trade, establish a special unit staffed with tariff, legal and systems-design 
specialists to build and maintain an integrated tariff system, and develop e-document 
systems software; (c) support in implementation of a new cargo control and declaration 
processing regime; (d) strengthen the back-end functions of post-clearance verification 
and audit; (e) strengthen law enforcement and border control functions by training, 
procurement of equipment, capacity building in intelligence, investigations and anti-
smuggling, and improvement of information exchange; and (f) develop a comprehensive 
control and enforcement strategy.  
5
Part III: Information and Communication Technology
Provision of technical assistance, goods and training to: (a) strengthen the 
organizational capacity of the CCC to plan and manage information and communication 
technology (ICT) systems, and implement a strategy to recruit and retain information 
technology staff; (b) develop and enhance an integrated ICT systems; and (c) strengthen 
the archiving, data warehousing, and security capacity of the CCC.  
 
Part IV: Program Management
Provision of goods, training and operating costs of the CCC to support Project 
coordination, implementation and management. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following 
institutional and other arrangements: 
1. 
The Borrower, through the CCC, shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and operational procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
provisions of the Operational Manual without prior approval of the Bank. 
2. 
The PSC shall have overall responsibility for Project oversight, policy guidance 
as well as interagency coordination in accordance with the requirements, criteria, 
organizational arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual.  
3. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain the PSC with a composition, resources, and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, the CCC at 
all times functions in a manner, and with staff, consultants, facilities, and other resources 
necessary for the management and implementation of the Project, all satisfactory to the 
Bank, including an appropriate organizational structure for the implementation, financial 
management and procurement under the Project. 
 
5. 
The total Project costs shall be financed at thirty percent (30%) from the Loan 
and seventy percent (70%) from the Borrower’s own contribution. In order to ensure that 
appropriate funds are available to cover the Borrower’s contribution to the Project, the 
Borrower shall make the appropriate annual budget allocations to the CCC. 
 
B. 
Midterm Review 
 
1. 
On or about June 30, 2010, the Borrower, through the MoF and the CCC, shall 
carry out jointly with the Bank, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out 
the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall 
cover, amongst other things: 
 
7
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the CCC, shall prepare at least four (4) weeks prior to the 
Midterm Review, and furnish to the Bank, a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Project Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
8
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section II of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth 
 
in the Attachment to this Schedule 2 
 
(b)   
Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
9
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(b)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant  Guidelines for 
 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Goods  
 
12,150,000 
32% 
(2) Consultants’ Services   
 
and Training  
 
6,350,000 
33% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
18,500,000
10
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
 
(a)  
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-End Fee; and  
 
(b)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
11
Attachment to   
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding procedures of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
A. 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises
Government-owned enterprises on the territory of the Borrower shall be eligible 
to participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
 
B. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods acceptable to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents; 
 
(c) 
domestic preference should not be applied; and 
 
(d) 
contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall 
take place. 
 
D. 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (for example, more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
E. 
Cancellation of the Bidding Process
Non-recognition of a tender and soliciting new bids can be done only with the 
prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
12
F. 
Rejection of an Individual Bid
An individual bid shall be rejected only in the following cases: 
 
(a) 
the bidder is not qualified; 
 
(b) 
the bidder does not accept the correction of an arithmetical error in his 
bid by the Tender Commission of the procuring entity; and 
 
(c) 
the bidder is not responsive to the requirements of the bidding 
documents. 
 
13
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
 
beginning July 15, 2013  
through January 15, 2023 
925,000 
 
14
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“CCC” means the Customs Control Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan, reporting to the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.  
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
5. 
“MoF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
 
6. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the CCC on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including staff 
salaries and consultancy costs, training, conferences, study tours and seminars, 
dissemination of Project related information, office rent and utilities, office and 
equipment insurance, maintenance and repair, vehicle maintenance and repair, 
travel, security, communication, bank charges, and other miscellaneous costs 
directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
7. 
“Operational Manual” means the Project operational manual satisfactory to the 
Bank and to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, describing procedures for implementation of the Project, consistent 
with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national laws and regulations 
of the Borrower and including, inter alia:
(i) procedures governing 
administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, and monitoring 
and evaluation arrangements; and (ii) sample formats for annual reports; as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
15
 
10. 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee, established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, responsible for Project oversight, 
policy guidance and interagency coordination, which shall meet at least twice per 
year, and is chaired by the Minister of Finance of the Borrower or his delegated 
representative, and includes: (i) the Chairman of the CCC or his authorized 
representative; (ii) a representative of the Ministry of Economy and Budget 
Planning of the Borrower; (iii) representatives of government authorities 
responsible for exercising control functions on the state border; and (v) 
representatives of foreign trade participants, such as customs brokers. 
 
11. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment 
rental, travel, per diem costs of trainees and trainers and trainers’ fees. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Section  3.01 shall read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end 
fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”).” 
2. 
A new paragraph (d) is included in Section 3.02 Interest which shall read 
as follows: 
“(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the Default 
Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan 
Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a 
result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default 
Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be 
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.” 
3.  
Appendix  “Definitions” is amended as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 19 “Commitment Charge”
is deleted, and subsequent 
paragraphs are re-numbered accordingly. 
16
(b) 
New paragraphs 27, 28, 29 and 30 are added to the Appendix:
“27. 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount 
remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall 
commence on the 31st day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, 
and the final such Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is 
fully paid.” 
28. 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%).” 
29. 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
3.02 first becomes overdue. 
30. 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable 
Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
(c) 
Paragraph 43 “Fixed Spread” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“43. 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan 
Currency in effect at 12:0 1 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the 
Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided 
17
further that notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest 
is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
(d) 
Paragraph 56 “LIBOR Reset Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read 
as follows: 
“56. 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means: (a) for any Loan Currency other than Euro, 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period 
(or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in 
which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two London Banking Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency 
other than Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the first 
or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day 
immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on 
the first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved 
Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date); (b) 
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest 
Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period for a Variable Spread Loan, the day 
two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month 
in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to Euro falls on a day other 
than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in 
which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion 
18
Date; provided that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such 
month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); and (c)  notwithstanding sub-paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, for a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the 
Bank determines that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR Reset Date is 
on a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be 
such other date, as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”
(e) 
Paragraph 66 “Loan Payment” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“66. 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not 
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, 
interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction 
fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
(f) 
Paragraph 71 “Payment Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“71. 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.” 
