CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7560-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Electricity Distribution Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 27, 2008  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 27, 2008, between THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of forty two million Dollars ($42,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
-2- 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by CDEEE (the Project Implementing 
Entity) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;  
 
(b) 
that the Project Implementing Entity has failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement; and 
 
-3- 
 
(c) 
that Project Implementing Entity or the EDEs have failed to comply with any of 
their obligations under the EDEs Agreements. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the events 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occur and is continuing for a period of 60 days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(b) 
The EDEs Agreements have been executed on behalf of the parties thereto. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Subsidiary 
Agreement and the EDEs Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower, and the Project Implementing Entity and/or the respective EDE, as the case 
may be, and are legally binding upon the Borrower, the Project Implementing Entity and 
each EDE, as the case may be, in accordance with their terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case 
 
later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan  which expire on 
 
November 20, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretario de Estado de Hacienda.
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Estado de Hacienda  
 
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
 
Santo Domingo, República Dominicana 
 
Tel:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(809) 687-5131  
(809) 688-8838 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
-4- 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Vicente Bengoa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase the CRI of the three EDEs, through the 
rehabilitation of distribution networks in selected areas; and (ii) to improve the quality of 
electricity service in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Rehabilitation of Medium and Low Voltage Circuits
Rehabilitation and upgrading of the EDEs’ medium and low voltage circuits in selected 
EDENORTE, EDESUR and EDEESTE networks, through, inter alia:
(a) 
the replacement of existing rundown and aged medium and low voltage overhead 
lines;  
 
(b)  
the expansion of distribution substations and feeders;  
 
(c)  
the replacement and installation of meters, cables and transformers, as well as the    
installation of new connections for the customers with irregular connections;  
 
(d)  
the installation of remote meters for consumers; and  
 
(e)  
the installation of theft-proof equipment in problem areas. 
 
Part 2: Outreach to Consumer Communities
Reestablishment of trust and definition of rules for communities benefiting from Part 1 of 
the Project, using the 24 Hours of Light Program as a starting point, including the development of 
social agreements (Pactos Sociales) between the respective EDE and the community affected. 
Said agreements will establish the commitment of the EDE to provide electricity for more hours 
in exchange for regularization of illegal connections and prompt payment of bills. Each affected 
community shall benefit, inter alia, from the following actions: 
 
(a) 
the diagnosis of the socioeconomic characteristics of each community, as well as 
the diagnosis of the current status of the electrical service and formulation of 
intervention strategies; 
 
(b) 
the development of consensus among EDEs, community leaders and 
organizations, and local authorities in support of the 24 Hours of Light Program; 
 
(c) 
the carrying out of the necessary information, dissemination and community 
educational activities for the implementation of the 24 Hours of Light Program; 
 
(d) 
the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation of the 24 Hours of Light Program; 
and 
-6- 
 
(e) 
the provision of training, preparation of accountability reports, as well as the 
preparation of community forums for the maintenance of the social network. 
 
Part 3: Technical Assistance and Project Management
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance and training to CDEEE for the debt 
restructuring of the EDEs, through: (i) the carrying out of legal and financial 
assessment on the amounts and legal status of the debts remaining after 
compensations have been paid; and (ii) the identification of a viable option for 
debt restructuring, followed by the preparation of a plan for its execution. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of periodic consumer satisfaction surveys in order to measure the 
level of satisfaction of consumers with respect to the quality of electricity 
services in the rehabilitated circuits. 
 
(c) 
(i) Provision of technical assistance (including audits) and the financing of 
operational costs to UERS for Project coordination, implementation and 
supervision; and (ii) the design and implementation of a monitoring and 
evaluation system for the Project. 
 
(d) 
Provision of technical assistance to the EDEs for the carrying out of: (i) external 
financial audits; and (ii) monitoring and audits on the performance of contractors 
hired under the Project. 
 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain, until completion 
of the Project, a unit within its own structure (the UERS), with staff (including a 
procurement specialist), structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, responsible for 
the management, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project.  
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, the 
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing 
Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing 
Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of carrying out Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
CDEEE (through the Subsidiary Agreement) to enter into an agreement with each EDE 
(the EDEs Agreements), setting forth the technical, financial, administrative and 
fiduciary aspects of the participation of the Project Implementing Entity and each EDE in 
the implementation and use of funds under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, all in accordance 
with the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to exercise its rights under 
each EDEs Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, neither the Borrower nor the Project Implementing Entity shall assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any of the EDEs Agreements or any of their provisions. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards and Operational Considerations 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual 
(the “Operational Manual”), satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia:
(i) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (ii) the 
organizational structure of the Project (including the roles and responsibilities of the 
Project Implementing Entity, and the three EDEs); (iii) the Project procurement and 
-8- 
 
financial management requirements and procedures; (iv) Environmental Guidelines (Guía 
Ambiental para Proyectos de Distribución de Energía Eléctrica); (v) the standard 
environmental provisions to be included in the bidding documents for investments to be 
carried out under the Project; (vi) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; 
(vii) the format of: (A) the interim unaudited financial reports referred to in Section II. 
B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) the Financial Statements; (viii) the terms of 
reference for carrying out the Project audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and (ix) the indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation.  In 
case of any inconsistency between any provision of the Operational Manual and this 
Agreement, the provision of this Agreement will prevail. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Project Implementing Entity, monitor and evaluate 
the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in 
the Operational Manual and agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty 
five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, or shall 
cause the Project Implementing Agency to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the 
Project Report not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
-9- 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(1) Goods and Works under 
Part 1 of the Project 
 
37,000,000 
75% 
(2) Goods, Consultant 
Services, Training and 
Operating Costs under Part 2 
of the Project 
 
2,895,000 
 
100% 
(3) Consultant’s Services, 
Training and Operating Costs 
under Part 3 of the Project 
 
2,000,000 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
105,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
42,000,000 
 
For the purposes of this Section, the terms: 
 
(i) 
“Operating Costs” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the daily operation of the UERS, rental and 
maintenance of equipment and vehicles, rental of office facilities, office utilities, 
supplies and materials, and domestic travel and per diem of UERS staff, which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
“Training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by the UERS and the 
EDEs in connection with training activities under the Project, including the rental 
of facilities, training materials and travel and per diem of trainers and trainees. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
-10- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2013  
 
through May 15, 2037 
 
2.04% 
On November 15, 2037 
2.08% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
-11- 
 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
-12- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
3. 
“CDEEE” means Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas Estatales, the 
Borrower’s conglomerate of electric companies.  
 
4. 
“CRI” means cash recovery index, an indicator for measurement of the percentage of 
power purchased by each EDE and recovered though payments by consumers (excluding 
the PRA areas), measured monthly on a cumulative basis, using data from the month of 
the calculation and the five previous months, under the following formula: 
 
Energy billed / Energy purchased by the EDEs 
 
X
Bills paid by the consumers / Total billing of the EDEs to consumers. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
6. 
“EDE” or “EDEs” means collectively EDENORTE, EDESUR and EDEESTE. 
 
7. 
“EDEs Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.B.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in Section I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
8. 
“EDEESTE” means Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este, S.A., serving the 
following areas of the Borrower’s territory: Santo Domingo, San Pedro de Macorís, El 
Seibo y la Romana. 
 
9. 
“EDENORTE” means Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Norte, S.A., serving the 
following areas of the Borrower’s territory: Santiago, La Vega, Puerto Plata y San 
Francisco. 
 
10. 
“EDESUR” means Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Sur, S.A., serving the 
following areas of the Borrower’s territory: Distrito Nacional, San Cristóbal, Azua, 
Barahona y San Juan. 
 
11. 
“Environmental Guidelines” means Guia Ambiental para Proyectos de Distribución de 
Energía Eléctrica, the guidelines developed by the Borrower (through its Secretary of 
-13- 
 
Environment and in close consultation with the EDEs), and included in the Operational 
Manual, to be used in electric distribution activities under the Project. 
12. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for Project implementation prepared by the 
Project Implementing Entity dated April 11, 2008, and referred to in Section I.D.1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
13. 
“PRA” means Programa de Reducción de Apagones, the Borrower’s Blackout Reduction 
Program, created pursuant Presidential Decree No. 1080-01, dated November 3, 2001 and 
modified by Presidential Decree No. 1554, dated December 13, 2004. 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated April 
8, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Corporación Dominicana de 
Empresas Eléctricas Estatales (CDEEE). 
 
17. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means: (i) Ley General de Electricidad, the 
Borrower’s General Electricity Law No. 125-01 of July 26, 2001 which created CDEEE; 
(ii) Reglamento de la Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas Estatales, the 
Borrower’s Regulations on CDEEE of August 21, 2002; and (iii) Decreto No. 16-06 
Funcionamiento de la Unidad de Electrificación Rural y Sub-Urbana, the Borrower’s 
decree establishing the functioning of the UERS. 
 
18. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
19. 
“UERS” means Unidad de Electrificación Rural Sub-Urbana, the unit located within the 
Project Implementing Entity, and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
20. 
“24 Hours of Light Program” means the Borrower’s program for extending the hours of 
electricity delivered to various circuits located in the networks of the EDEs, in exchange 
for an increase in the CRI. Said program includes both physical investments and intensive 
community 
outreach 
activities.
 
