CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7555-JM 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Protection Project) 
 
between 
 
JAMAICA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 10, 2008 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7555-JM 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 10, 2008, between JAMAICA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000) (the Loan), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Project). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: namely, a 
-2- 
 
change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MLSS with the assistance of:  (a) the 
ME, the MoH, the PIOJ and the LGD for purposes of Part 1 of the Project; (b) the MFPS 
and the PIOJ for purposes of Part 3 of the Project; and (c) the PIOJ for purposes of Part 4 
of the Project; all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The PATH Cabinet Decisions have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the implementation of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
The PIOJ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs 
and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
-3- 
 
(a) 
The Project Operations Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, through 
MLSS, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including a confirmation that the 
Project Operations Manual is consistent with the PATH Cabinet Decisions. 
 
(b) 
The Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
the PIOJ. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen 
months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on November 13, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and the Public Service of the 
Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and the Public Service 
30 National Heroes Circle 
Kingston 4 
Jamaica 
 
Facsimile: 
876-924-9291 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-4- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
JAMAICA 
 
By /s/ Anthony Johnson 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in strengthening its social 
protection system by:  (a) improving the effectiveness of the PATH to foster investment by poor 
families in human capital accumulation; (b) developing a structured system for assisting working-
age members of PATH Eligible Households to seek and retain employment; (c) enabling the 
formulation of a reform program for public sector pension schemes; and (d) developing a social 
protection strategy. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Improving the Effectiveness of the PATH
(a) 
Financing of PATH Child Grants.
Assisting the Borrower in its social 
protection strategy by co-financing PATH Child Grants. 
 
(b) 
Institutional Strengthening of the PATH.
(i) 
Strengthening and improving administrative systems of the PATH by:  
(A) reviewing and improving the targeting, enrollment and recertification 
of PATH Beneficiaries; (B) implementing a content management system 
to improve the accuracy of data entry and records management; and (C) 
training social workers and other relevant stakeholders. 
 
(ii) 
Improving accountability, monitoring and evaluation of the PATH by:  
(A) developing a strategic monitoring system based on an enhanced MIS; 
(B) conducting two process evaluations on the implementation of the 
PATH; (C) developing service standards and mechanisms to monitor 
compliance with such standards; (D) strengthening the financial 
management and internal audit capacity of the PATH; (E) conducting an 
impact evaluation to assess the PATH’s contribution to school 
enrollment, attendance, and high school completion; (F) conducting an 
assessment on the PATH’s targeting accuracy; and (G) developing and 
implementing appropriate public education and social marketing 
programs. 
 
(iii) 
Strengthening the capacity of the MLSS to implement the PATH, 
through the provision of consultant services, goods and operating costs. 
 
Part 2. Building Capacity for the Steps-to-Work Program
Supporting the MLSS to implement a new initiative, the Steps-to-Work Program (StW 
Program), which will target working-age members of PATH Eligible Households, for referral to 
the relevant support services of the Borrower to enable them to seek and retain employment.  
Support will be provided specifically for:  
 
-6- 
 
(a) 
capacity building activities such as provision of training and study tours, carrying 
out of studies to improve program design and operation, enhancement of the 
MIS, and development of a directory of service providers; 
 
(b) 
incremental operating costs associated with the StW Program; and 
 
(c) 
monitoring and evaluation of the StW Program, including impact and process 
evaluations. 
 
Part 3. Improving Public Sector Pension System Administration and Building Capacity for
Reform
(a) 
Preparation of a Reform Program.
Supporting the preparation of a White 
Paper outlining a multi-year reform program for public sector pension schemes, 
including an assessment of the associated fiscal, welfare and institutional 
impacts, through: 
 
(i) 
the provision of training on financial modeling of pension systems, cash 
flow forecasting, and the design and operations of defined benefit, 
notional defined contribution, and defined contribution systems; and 
 
(ii) 
the provision of technical assistance on policy analysis. 
 
(b) 
Improving Public Sector Administration and Information Systems.
Improving the pension administration system so that pensions are calculated, 
awarded and paid in a more timely manner, through: 
 
(i) 
the development of a computerized database to keep track of the career 
histories of public sector workers; 
 
(ii) 
the redesign of the current payment process and strengthening of the 
related information technology infrastructure; and 
 
(iii) 
the carrying out of a review of the Borrower’s existing legislation for 
public sector workers to propose amendments required to harmonize the 
pension schemes for such workers. 
 
Part 4. Development of a Social Protection Strategy.
Supporting the Borrower in developing a social protection strategy to inform decision-
making on appropriate policies and programs to address social risks and vulnerabilities within the 
Borrower’s population.  Support will be provided specifically for: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
diagnostic studies, including but not limited to vulnerability and social 
safety net assessments; and 
 
(ii) 
study tours to observe best practices of social protection systems and 
programs; 
 
-7- 
 
(b) 
consensus-building activities on the reforms required to address the gaps 
identified; and 
 
(c) 
a social protection strategy outlining recommended reform options. 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, within the MLSS, throughout Project implementation, key 
staff for Project implementation, including without limitation a Project manager and 
procurement and financial management personnel dedicated full-time to the Project, two 
part-time component coordinators, and other staff that may be necessary in adequate 
numbers, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the MLSS, shall enter into an agreement with the PIOJ, 
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the roles 
and responsibilities of the MLSS and the PIOJ in the implementation of the 
Project (the Implementation Agreement).  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Implementation Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
B. 
Operations Manual 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, 
including the PATH Operations Manual; and 
 
(b) 
the Project Operations Manual or any part thereof is not amended, waived, 
suspended or abrogated without the Bank’s prior written concurrence, and in case 
of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Project Operations Manual 
and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Other Arrangements 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall ensure that: 
 
-9- 
 
(a) 
the Bank is promptly informed of any developments in the legislation or 
regulations of the Borrower and/or the rules or procedures of the Borrower, 
including information on Cabinet decisions relevant to the PATH, that may affect 
the performance of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower’s agencies, which are required to provide services under the 
Project, are made aware of the requirements of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
and take all actions necessary to support the carrying out of the Project in 
compliance with such requirements. 
 
2. 
No later than March 31 each year during Project implementation, the Borrower shall 
prepare, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, an annual internal audit plan for 
the PATH.  The Borrower shall furnish each audit plan to the Bank promptly upon its 
preparation, afford the Bank two weeks to exchange views with the Borrower on such 
plan, and thereafter implement such plan, taking into account the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
 
3. 
(a) 
No later than one year after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall hire, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a consultant to carry out an 
independent process evaluation of the PATH, which evaluation shall be 
completed no later than six months thereafter (or such other later date as the 
Bank may establish by notice to the Borrower).  This independent process 
evaluation shall have the objectives of examining whether the PATH is being 
implemented as designed, identifying bottlenecks and suggesting remedial 
actions.  It shall examine the quality of service delivery, develop a proposal of 
service standards and inform the design of an internal, periodic system of “spot 
checks” to detect and correct problems in a timely manner, which shall be 
implemented by the Borrower after the completion of this process evaluation.  
The Borrower shall discuss with the Bank the results of this independent process 
evaluation and agree on an action plan to implement any necessary measures to 
ensure the success of the PATH. 
 
(b) 
No later than March 31, 2012 (or such other date as the Bank may establish by 
notice to the Borrower), the Borrower shall hire, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, a consultant to carry out a second independent process 
evaluation of the PATH, which evaluation shall be completed no later than six 
months thereafter (or such other later date as the Bank may establish by notice to 
the Borrower).  The Borrower shall discuss with the Bank the results of this 
second independent process evaluation and agree on an action plan to implement 
any necessary measures to ensure the success of the PATH. 
 
4. 
No later than six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall implement the 
improved MIS being developed by the MLSS as of the date of this Agreement, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5. 
If at any time the Bank determines that any portion of the Loan proceeds was used for 
items improperly procured in violation of Section III of this Schedule, was not used for 
Eligible Expenditures or, in the case of Conditional Cash Transfer Payments, was not 
supported by evidence of actual cash transfers paid to PATH Eligible Households and/or 
-10- 
 
by evidence of satisfaction of other criteria set forth in this Agreement or in the Project 
Operations Manual (including compliance with the PATH Co-responsibility) the 
Borrower shall promptly refund any such portion to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Project Operations 
Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of four months, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the four-month period, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
four months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
-11- 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for 
goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Fixed Budget Selection 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications 
(e)  Single Source Selection 
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
-12- 
 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Conditional Cash 
 
Transfer Payments under 
 
Part 1(a) of the Project 
 
32,000,000 
 
28% prior to fulfillment of 
Performance Milestones I;  
 
35% 
after 
fulfillment 
of 
Performance Milestones I; and 
40% 
after 
fulfillment 
of 
Performance Milestones II, 
provided that fulfillment of 
Performance Milestones I has 
been maintained; all to the 
Bank’s satisfaction 
 
(2) 
Goods, services, 
 
Training and Operating 
 
Costs under Parts 1 (b), 
 
2, 3 and 4 of the Project 
 
7,900,000 
100% 
(3) 
Front-end Fee 
 
100,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
40,000,000 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means:  (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility 
rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this paragraph; 
 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs, and salaries 
-13- 
 
of locally contracted employees (none of which would have been incurred in the 
absence of the Project); 
 
(c) 
the term “Performance Milestones I” means: 
 
(i) 
the Borrower’s Cabinet has approved an increase of the base PATH 
benefit ($530 Jamaican Dollars as of March 2008) by at least 8%; 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower’s Cabinet has approved a new PATH benefit review 
mechanism acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(iii) 
the MLSS has adopted service standards for the PATH and monitoring 
mechanisms for compliance with such standards, all satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
 
(iv) 
the first independent process evaluation referred to in Section I.D.3 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been completed; 
 
(v) 
PATH payment and compliance reports are being generated by the 
enhanced MIS referred to in Section I.D.4 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(vi) 
the baseline data for the PATH impact evaluation referred to in Part 1 (b) 
(ii) (E) of the Project has been collected; and 
 
(d) 
the term “Performance Milestones II” means: 
 
(i) 
at least 80% of all PATH Beneficiaries due to be recertified according to 
the PATH Operations Manual have been recertified; 
 
(ii) 
at least 70% of all PATH Beneficiaries are receiving grants according to 
the improved service standards referred to in paragraph (c) (iii) above; 
 
(iii) 
the targeting assessment for the PATH has been completed as part of the 
impact evaluation referred to in Part 1 (b) (ii) (E) of the Project; and 
 
(iv) 
the MLSS is using a revised targeting methodology and beneficiary 
identification system for the PATH that is satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that: 
 
(a) 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,520,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 1, 2008 (but in 
no case more than one year prior to the date of this Agreement), for Eligible 
Expenditures under Category 1; and 
 
-14- 
 
(b) 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 1, 2008 (but in no 
case more than one year prior to the date of this Agreement), for Eligible 
Expenditures under Category 2. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
 
-15- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2013 
 
Through April 15, 2038 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
-16- 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
List of Cabinet Submissions and Decisions for the PATH 
 
NO. 
ITEM 
CABINET SUB. & DECISIONS 
1
Award of Contract for Enhancement of Management 
Information System Project# SSN-CON-QCBS-
2006/03 – Programme of Advancement through Health 
and Education  
Cabinet Submission No. 474/MLSS-
19/07 (IC-124/07) dated October 19, 2007; 
Cabinet Decision No. 39/07 dated October 
29, 2007 
2
Social Safety Net Reform:  Proposed No. of 
Beneficiaries and Value of the Unified Benefit 
Cabinet Submission No. 57/MLSS-5/01;
Cabinet Decision No. 8/01 dated February 
24, 2001. 
3
Special Payment to PATH Beneficiaries 
Cabinet Submission No. 
355/MLSS/09/04 –Confirmation of 
Minutes No. 30/04 dated September 27, 
2004;  Cabinet Decision No. 31/04 dated 
October 4, 2004. 
4
Award of Contract for Impact Evaluation of Jamaica’s 
Social Safety Net Project (PATH) 
Cabinet Submission No. 128/MLSS-
05/03 dated March 14, 2003; Cabinet 
Decision No. 12/03 dated March 31, 2003. 
5
Award of Contract for Operational Audit of Jamaica’s 
Social Safety Net Project– PATH 
Cabinet Submission No. 360/MLSS-
16/03 dated September 4, 2003; Cabinet 
Decision No. 29/03 dated September 15, 
2003. 
6
Beneficiary Identification System for Secondary 
School Fee Assistance Programme 
Cabinet Note from MLSS dated June 30, 
2003; Cabinet Decision No. 25/03 dated 
July 14, 2003. 
7
Ministry Paper:  Social Safety Net Reform: Jamaica 
United Benefit Programme 
Cabinet Submission No. 85/MLSS-9/02 
dated February 18, 2002; Cabinet 
Decision No. 7/07 dated February 23, 
2002.  
8
Social Safety Net Reform Programme:  Treatment of 
Current Welfare Beneficiaries not Selected by the New 
Targeting Mechanism 
Cabinet Submission No. HRC-12/02 
dated July 17, 2002; Cabinet Decision No. 
31/02 dated September 16, 2002;  
9
Report on the Status of the Social Safety Net Project 
Note to Cabinet on the HRC meeting 
held on December 10, 2001; Cabinet 
Decision No. 2/02 dated January 14, 2002. 
10 
Status Report:  PATH 
Cabinet Note dated July 19, 2002; 
Cabinet Decision No. 27/02 dated July 22, 
2002. 
11 
Capping or Uncapping Beneficiary Numbers:  Social 
Safety Net 
Cabinet Submission No. 270/MFP-43/01; 
Cabinet Decision No. 25/01 dated July 9, 
2001. 
12 
Social Safety Net  
Cabinet Submission No. MLSS/01 dated 
February 14, 2001; Cabinet Decision No. 
15/01 dated April 17, 2001. 
13 
Update on Preparation Activities for the Social Safety 
Net World Bank Finance Project 
Report on meeting of the HRC held on 
March 19, 2001; No. HRC-3/01; Cabinet 
-17- 
 
NO. 
ITEM 
CABINET SUB. & DECISIONS 
Decision No. 13/01 dated April 2, 2001. 
14 
Update on the Reform of the Social Safety Net 
Cabinet Note dated January 10, 2001; 
Cabinet Decision No. 3/01 dated January 
22, 2001. 
15 
Strengthening of the Operations of the Social and 
Economic Support Programme (SESP) Consistent with 
the Reform of the Social Safety Net  
Cabinet Submission No. 335/MFP-53/01; 
Cabinet Decision No. 32/01 dated August 
20, 2001. 
16 
Reform of the Social Safety Net 
Cabinet Submission No. 341/MFP-72/00 
dated October 12, 2000;  Cabinet 
Decisions No. 39/00 and 40/00 dated 
October 30 and November 6, 2000.  
17 
Enhancing the Social Protection System:  Social Safety 
Net Project II 
Cabinet Submission No. 42/MLSS-3/08 
dated January 8, 2008; Cabinet Decision 
No. 3/08 dated January 28, 2008. 
18 
Social Safety Net Reform:  Jamaica Unified Benefit 
Programme 
MINISTRY PAPER# 5 (TABLED IN 
PARLIAMENT - FEBRUARY 2002). 
-18- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Conditional Cash Transfer Payments” means PATH payments, in the form of PATH 
Child Grants, made by the Borrower to PATH Beneficiaries who comply with the PATH 
Co-responsibility applicable to PATH Child Grants. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.2 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement between the Borrower, through the MLSS, and the PIOJ. 
 
7. 
“LGD” means the Borrower’s Local Government Department under its Cabinet Office. 
 
8. 
“ME” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education. 
 
9. 
“MFPS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and the Public Service. 
 
10. 
“MIS” means the Borrower’s management information system for the PATH. 
 
11. 
“MLSS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labour and Social Security. 
 
12. 
“MoH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health. 
 
13. 
“PATH” means the Borrower’s Programme of Advancement through Health and 
Education established pursuant to the PATH Cabinet Decisions and operating under the 
PATH Operations Manual. 
 
14. 
“PATH Beneficiaries” means the individuals in the PATH Eligible Households that have 
voluntarily enrolled in the PATH. 
 
15. 
“PATH Cabinet Decisions” means the list of Cabinet Decisions for the PATH set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
-19- 
 
16. 
“PATH Co-responsibility” means health and education responsibilities assumed by 
PATH Eligible Households, as detailed in the PATH Operations Manual. 
 
17. 
“PATH Child Grants” means the health and education conditional cash transfers under 
the PATH for poor children and youth from birth up to the age of 19 years in PATH 
Eligible Households which comply with the applicable PATH Co-responsibility. 
 
18. 
“PATH Eligible Households” means the households in the Borrower’s population, each 
of which meets the criteria set forth in the PATH Operations Manual. 
 
19. 
“PATH Operations Manual” means the operations manual for the PATH, satisfactory to 
the Bank, which is included in the Project Operations Manual and which contains, inter 
alia: (a) the organizational structure for the PATH, including the roles and 
responsibilities of each entity or agency involved in its implementation; (b) the 
operational cycle of the PATH, including eligibility criteria, detailed rules and procedures 
for the Conditional Cash Transfer Payments; (c) the indicators to be used in the 
monitoring and evaluation of the PATH; and (d) monitoring and evaluation procedures. 
 
20. 
“Performance Milestones” means collectively Performance Milestones I and Performance 
Milestones II, all being a set of indicators appearing under Section IV.A.3 (c) and (d) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, whose compliance shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
21. 
“PIOJ” means the Planning Institute of Jamaica. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
28, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
24. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the manual, including all appendices and schedules 
thereto, satisfactory to the Bank and adopted by the Borrower, through the MLSS, which 
sets forth the policies and procedures that apply to the carrying out of the Project, which 
include, inter alia: (a) the PATH Operations Manual; (b) the roles and responsibilities of 
each of the agencies or entities involved in Project implementation; (c) the staffing 
requirements for the Project; (d) the estimated implementation schedule; (e) procedures 
for accessing, disbursing and accounting for funds under the Project; (f) the indicators to 
be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (g) procedures for Project 
monitoring, supervision and evaluation, including the format and content of the Project 
Reports; and (h) procurement and financial management procedures. 
 
25. 
“StW Program” means the Borrower’s Steps to Work Program to be developed and 
supported under Part 2 of the Project. 
 
26. 
“White Paper” means a paper that constitutes the blue-print that guides the preparation of 
legislation. 
 
-20- 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
1.   
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
the payment is for the financing of Conditional Cash Transfer Payments 
(as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement) or the reasonable cost of goods, works 
or services required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and 
procured, all in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;”.
 
