CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7505-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(National Program for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 6, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 6, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions 
for Loans, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 2008) (“IBRD 
General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the IBRD General Conditions 
or in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement between the Borrower and the 
International Development Association (Credit No. 4385 for the Project, of the 
same date as this Agreement, as such Financing Agreement may be amended 
from time to time (“Financing Agreement”).  
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement the amount of forty one million one hundred ninety 
thousand Dollars ($41,190,000) as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.     
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the IBRD General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of 
the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the IBRD 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the IBRD General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the IBRD General Conditions and of 
the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the IBRD General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MOHA, in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the IBRD General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and 
subject to Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of the Financing Agreement, 
and Schedules 1 and 2 and the Appendix thereto, are incorporated in this 
3
Agreement, with the following modifications in said Sections and Schedules 1 
and 2 (other than in Part A.2 of Section IV of such Schedule 2) and Appendix 
thereto, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a) 
 “Financing Agreement” shall be construed as references to 
“Loan Agreement”; 
 
(b) 
references to the “Association” shall be construed as references 
to the “Bank”; 
 
(c) 
references to “Credit” or “Financing” shall be construed as 
references to “Loan”;  
 
(d) 
references to the “Recipient” shall be construed as references to 
the “Borrower”; and 
 
(e) 
references to provisions of the IDA General Conditions shall be 
construed as references to the corresponding provisions of the 
IBRD General Conditions. 
3.03. 
So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Financing Agreement 
shall remain outstanding, and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by 
the Bank: 
 
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given by the Association, 
pursuant to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the 
Financing Agreement enumerated in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement shall be deemed to have been taken or given in the 
name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Recipient to 
the Association pursuant to the provisions of any of such 
Sections of the Financing Agreement or Schedules thereto shall 
be deemed to have been furnished to both the Association and 
Bank. 
 
ARTICLE IV— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the 
Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered, and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
4
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY 45799   
DJMLN-IA 
 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
6
SCHEDULE 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
April 01, 2020 
3.68% 
October 01, 2020 
3.77% 
April 01, 2021 
3.87% 
October 01, 2021 
3.96% 
April 01, 2022 
4.06% 
October 01, 2022 
4.16% 
April 01, 2023 
4.27% 
October 01, 2023 
4.37% 
April 01, 2024 
4.48% 
October 01, 2024 
4.60% 
April 01, 2025 
4.71% 
October 01, 2025 
4.83% 
April 01, 2026 
4.95% 
October 01, 2026 
5.07% 
April 01, 2027 
5.20% 
October 01, 2027 
5.33% 
April 01, 2028 
5.46% 
October 01, 2028 
5.60% 
April 01, 2029 
5.74% 
October 01, 2029 
5.88% 
April 01, 2030 
6.01% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
7
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
8
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
