CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7542-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Gansu Cultural and Natural Heritage 
 Protection and Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 28, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 28, 2008, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-eight million four hundred 
thousand dollars ($38,400,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
3
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By  
/s/ Yang Shaolin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  
/s/ David Dollar  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Gansu Province in generating benefits for 
local communities through the development of sustainable cultural tourism. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1. Protection and Development of Priority Cultural and Natural Heritage Sites 
 
Implementing the following in Selected Sites within the Selected Municipalities: 
 
(a) 
Heritage Conservation and Presentation
Carry out rehabilitation, restoration and other works for the preservation 
and conservation of key relics; conduct research related to such 
preservation and conservation; and enhance the interpretation and 
presentation of cultural and natural heritage assets. 
 
(b) 
Infrastructure, Tourism Services and Environmental Protection
Carry out investments in high priority physical infrastructure that raise 
local standards of living and that have a high potential for promoting 
local economic development through tourism, including the construction 
of access roads, tourist service facilities and facilities for the provision of 
utility services such as water supply, power supply and management of 
wastewater and solid waste.  
Part 2. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building 
 
Strengthening institutional capacity to implement and manage the Project, 
including: 
 
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance to the PPMO, MPMOs and PIUs for the 
implementation of the Project, including design review, construction 
supervision and progress reporting. 
 
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance and training to implementing agencies, 
relevant government staff, and communities within Selected Sites in 
heritage conservation, site management, and tourism development. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out of a province-wide study on tourism market development 
and of site-specific studies and plans on tangible and intangible heritage. 
5
Part 3. Resettlement  
 
Carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection 
with the implementation of Part 1 of the Project. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall be 
recovered over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period 
of seven (7) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
February 15 and August 15 each year.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
7
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank as part of 
the Project Report by not later than February 15 and August 15 each year, interim 
un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the preceding calendar 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
8
Procurement Method 
(a) 
 National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the 
People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of 
the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that 
are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. 
Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding 
documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders 
between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified 
in detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the 
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there 
shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient 
to 
protect 
the 
Borrower 
or 
the 
Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of 
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall 
specify the required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
9
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall 
not be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in 
the form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose 
bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to 
the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated 
cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition 
of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as 
originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country 
may be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and 
works if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; 
and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting 
the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number 
of bids is less than three (3). 
 
(b) 
Shopping 
 
10
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
 
(b) 
Single-source Selection 
 
(c) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(e) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  
 
(a) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more;  
 
(b) 
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more;  
 
(c) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more;  
 
(d) 
each contract, regardless of value, for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm procured using Single-source Selection; and  
 
(e) 
each contract, regardless of value, for goods, works and consultants’ 
services relating to heritage conservation or to presentation and 
exhibitions. 
11
 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis: (i) the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval; 
(ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category (inclusive of Taxes). 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1)  Goods and works for Project 
implementation in Jiuquan 
Municipality 
 
5,080,000 
90% 
(2)  Goods and works for Project 
implementation in Jiayuguan 
Municipality 
 
4,840,000 
80% 
(3)  Goods and works for Project 
implementation in Zhangye 
Municipality 
 
1,830,000 
 
95% 
(4)  Goods and works for Project 
implementation in Baiyin 
Municipality 
 
3,280,000 
99% 
12
(5)  Goods and works for Project 
implementation in Lanzhou 
Municipality 
 
6,150,000 
99%
(6)  Goods and works for Project 
implementation in Tianshui 
Municipality 
 
15,734,000 
99% 
(7) Consultants’ services, training 
and workshops  
 
1,390,000 
100% 
(8)  Front-end Fee 
96,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
38,400,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after October 1, 2007, for 
Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
13
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
June 15, 2015 
3.85% 
December 15, 2015 
3.85% 
June 15, 2016 
3.85% 
December 15, 2016 
3.85% 
June 15, 2017 
3.85% 
December 15, 2017 
3.85% 
June 15, 2018 
3.85% 
December 15, 2018 
3.85% 
June 15, 2019 
3.85% 
December 15, 2019 
3.85% 
June 15, 2020 
3.85% 
December 15, 2020 
3.85% 
June 15, 2021 
3.85% 
December 15, 2021 
3.85% 
June 15, 2022 
3.85% 
December 15, 2022 
3.85% 
June 15, 2023 
3.85% 
December 15, 2023 
3.85% 
June 15, 2024 
3.85% 
December 15, 2024 
3.85% 
June 15, 2025 
3.85% 
December 15, 2025 
3.85% 
June 15, 2026 
3.85% 
December 15, 2026 
3.85% 
June 15, 2027 
3.85% 
December 15, 2027 
3.75% 
14
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
15
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
“Cultural Heritage Conservation Plans” means, collectively: (a) the plans set forth in 
Chapter 6 of the Consolidated Environmental Assessment and Environmental 
Management Plan for Gansu Cultural and Natural Heritage Protection and 
Development Project dated July 20, 2007, for the management of cultural 
resources in the Suoyang Town Tourism Scenic Area, Lutusi Ancient 
Government Center Tourism Scenic Area, Qingcheng Ancient Town Heritage 
Protection and Tourism Scenic Area, Great Wall Cultural Tourism Scenic Area, 
Weijin Tombs Cultural Tourism Scenic Area, and Mati Temple Scenic Area; and 
(b) the plan to be prepared for the Maijishan Scenic Area under Part 2(c) of the 
Project. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Consolidated Environmental 
Assessment and Environmental Management Plan for Gansu Cultural and 
Natural Heritage Protection and Development Project dated July 20, 2007, 
prepared on behalf of Gansu Province, which sets out the environmental 
protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“Gansu” means the Borrower’s Province of Gansu, and any successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
16
8. 
“Minority Development Plan” means the Indigenous Peoples Plan for Mati 
Temple Scenic Area in Sunan County dated July 12, 2007, setting out measures 
to mitigate possible negative impacts of the Project on minority nationalities 
living in and around the Mati Temple Scenic Area site in Sunan County, Zhangye 
Municipality, as such plan may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank.   
 
9. 
The acronym “MPMOs” means, collectively, the project management offices 
established and maintained by the Selected Municipalities in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, and any successors thereto; and a “MPMO” means any of said 
MPMOs.  
 
The acronym “PIUs” means, collectively, the units established for the Selected Sites and 
maintained 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
provisions 
of 
Section 
I,  
paragraph 1(b)(iii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successors 
thereto; and a “PIU” means any of said PIUs.  
 
The acronym “PPMO” means the project management office established and maintained 
by Gansu Province in accordance with the provisions of Section I, paragraph 
1(a)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successors thereto.  
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated July 23, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Project Dams” means the Yinyue Lake Dam and the Xianren Lake Dam located 
in the Maijishan Scenic Area in Tianshui Municipality. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Gansu Province and any 
successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
16. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the Resettlement Action Plan for Gansu 
Cultural and Natural Heritage Protection and Development Project dated July 23, 
2007, prepared on behalf of and adopted by Gansu Province, which sets out the 
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and 
the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on 
account of the carrying out of Project activities in the Lutusi Ancient 
Government Center Tourism Scenic Area and Qingcheng Ancient Town Heritage 
Protection and Tourism Scenic Area, both located in Lanzhou Municipality, as 
17
well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of 
the Bank. 
 
17. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means, the resettlement policy framework 
included in the Resettlement Action Plan for Gansu Cultural and Natural 
Heritage Protection and Development Project dated July 23, 2007, and adopted 
by Gansu Province, which framework sets out the policies and procedures for the 
acquisition of land and other assets, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action 
plans whenever required during the implementation of the Project, as said 
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the 
Bank. 
 
18. 
“Selected Municipalities” means, collectively, the Municipalities of Jiuquan, 
Jiayuguan, Zhangye, Baiyin, Lanzhou and Tianshui in Gansu Province, any other 
municipalities selected by agreement among the Borrower, Gansu and the Bank, 
and the successors thereto; and “Selected Municipality” means, individually, any 
of such Selected Municipalities.  
 
19. 
“Selected Sites” means in respect of: 
 
(a) 
Jiuquan Municipality: Yadan National Geological Park and Suoyang 
Town Tourism Scenic Area. 
 
(b) 
Jiayuguan Municipality:  Great Wall Cultural Tourism Scenic Area and 
Weijin Tombs Cultural Tourism Scenic Area. 
 
(c) 
Zhangye Municipality:  Mati Temple Scenic Area. 
 
(d) 
Lanzhou Municipality:  Lutusi Ancient Government Center Tourism 
Scenic Area and Qingcheng Ancient Town Heritage Protection and 
Tourism Scenic Area. 
 
(e) 
Baiyin Municipality: Yellow River Stone Forest National Geological 
Park. 
 
(f) 
Tianshui Municipality: Maijishan Scenic Area. 
 
18
20. 
“Xianren Lake Dam Safety Report” means the Xianren Lake Dam Site Visit 
Report dated May 11, 2007, set forth in Annex F of the Consolidated 
Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan for Gansu 
Cultural and Natural Heritage Protection and Development Project dated  
July 20, 2007, which said report sets out the remedial works and measures to be 
carried out at the Xianren Lake Dam in Tianshui Municipality.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Loans of the Bank, dated  
July 1, 2005, (as amended through February 12, 2008) are as follows: 
 
1. 
The first paragraph under Section 7.02 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank 
 
If any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this Section occurs 
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account. 
Such suspension shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to the 
suspension has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan 
Parties that such right to make withdrawals has been restored.” 
 
2. 
Paragraphs (c) and (l) under Section 7.02 are deleted in their entirety and 
paragraphs (d) through (m) under Section 7.02 are re-number accordingly. 
 
3. 
Paragraph (c) under Section 7.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
 Fraud; Corruption; Collusion; Coercion. At any time, the Bank: (i) 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount of 
expenditures under such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.” 
 
4. 
Paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) under Section 7.06 are modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Co-financing. The event specified in sub-paragraph (g) (ii) (B) of Section 
7.02 has occurred, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (iii) of that Section. 
 
19
(d) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. Any event specified in 
paragraph (h) of Section 7.02 has occurred. 
 
(e) 
Condition of Borrower or Project Implementing Entity. Any event 
specified in sub-paragraph (j) (ii), (j) (iii), (j) (iv) or (j) (v) of Section 7.02 has 
occurred.” 
 
5. 
Paragraphs 3, 15, 16, 17, 18 under Appendix (Definitions) are modified to read 
as follows:  
 
“3.     
“Additional Event of Suspension” means any event of suspension 
specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 7.02(k).” 
 
“15.   
“Co-financier” means the financier (other than the Bank or the 
Association) referred to in Section 7.02(g) providing the Co-financing. If 
the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financier, “Co-
financier” refers separately to each of such financiers.” 
 
“16.    “Co-financing” means the financing referred to in Section 7.02(g) and 
specified in the Loan Agreement provided or to be provided for the 
Project by the Co-financier. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than 
one such financing, “Co-financing” refers separately to each of such 
financings.” 
 
“17.     Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to in  
Section 7.02(g) providing for the Co-financing.” 
 
“18.     Co-financing Deadline” means the date referred to in Section 7.02(g)(i) 
and specified in the Loan Agreement by which the Co-financing 
Agreement is to become effective. If the Loan Agreement specifies more 
than one such date, “Co-financing Deadline” refers separately to each of 
such dates.” 
 
