CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7540-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Education Project APL Phase II in Support of  
a Program to Improve Access and Quality) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 19, 2008 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7540-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 19, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($40,000,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
-2- 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall: (a) carry out Part 1 and Part 3 of the Project through MEN; and (b) carry 
out Part 2 of the Project through MEN with the administrative assistance of the Trust 
Agent (pursuant to the Trust Agreement) in accordance with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 
4.01 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on October 16, 
2009. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
-3- 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
MINHACIENDA 
 
 
 
(571) 350-9344 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Oscar Iván Zuluaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ Cecilia María Velez White 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
-4- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase rural population access to quality education 
from pre-school to upper secondary education, promote higher retention of children and youths in 
the school system and improve education programs relevant to rural communities and their school 
populations. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1: Institutional Strengthening of Territorial Entities for Rural Equitable and Quality 
Education
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the capacity of the secretariats 
of education of the Territorial Entities to provide equitable education services, develop and 
implement compensation strategies to close the gap  between rural and urban areas, and improve 
education delivery mechanisms for the most vulnerable and remote populations and ethnic 
groups. 
 
Part 2: Rural Education Sub-projects
Assisting school principals, teaching staff and teacher training institutions to develop a 
better understanding of the educational needs in rural contexts and corresponding education 
interventions in rural areas to increase equitable access, improve school performance and improve 
student learning outcomes, through the carrying out of Rural Education Sub-projects. 
 
Part 3: Institutional Strengthening/ Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Management
Strengthening of the institutional, monitoring and management capabilities of MEN, 
including: 
 
(a) 
carrying out of various Project-related studies to promote quality education and 
related Project audits; 
 
(b) 
design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation strategy for the 
Project; and 
 
(c) 
strengthening of the IT in order for it to comply with its Project management and 
implementation responsibilities, including the design and implementation of a social 
communications strategy to inform and motivate the general community about the Project and its 
expected impact. 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MEN (with the 
administrative assistance of the Trust Agent, with respect to Part 2 of the Project, 
pursuant to the Trust Agreement) shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend or waive any provision of these documents without the Bank’s prior written 
approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of said documents and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MEN, shall maintain an operational manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing, inter alia, specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying 
out of the Project, including:  
 
(i) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements 
thereof;  
 
(ii) 
the criteria and methods for the selection of the Territorial Entities; 
 
(iii) 
the criteria and methods for the selection, approval, implementation and 
monitoring of the Rural Education Sub-projects; 
 
(iv) 
the model forms for the Rural Education Sub-project Agreements; 
 
(v) 
the IPPF; and  
 
(vi) 
the Key Performance Indicators.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MEN, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, an implementation team 
within MEN’s regular structure, with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable 
to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility of said team to coordinate and 
monitor the carrying out of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that the IT is, at all times during Project implementation, led by a Project 
coordinator and is assisted by adequate professional and administrative staff (including 
procurement and financial specialists), in numbers and with experience and qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
-6- 
 
B. 
Trust Agreement 
 
1. 
(a) 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through 
MEN, shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Trust Agent under an 
agreement between the Borrower and the Trust Agent, under terms and conditions 
approved by the Bank (including a satisfactory financial management assessment), which 
shall include, inter alia, the Trust Agent’s obligation to maintain, on behalf of the MEN, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the 
Project, in order to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MEN, shall exercise its rights under the Trust Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan.   
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Rural Education Sub-projects 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower, through MEN, shall 
enter into a separate tripartite Rural Education Sub-project agreement with each 
Territorial Entity and the Trust Agent, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank 
(as outlined in the Operational Manual). 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower, through MEN, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and, 
through MEN, prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 
of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Key Performance Indicators.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MEN, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through 
MEN, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
-7- 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MEN, shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Project becomes effective.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional procedures set forth in 
paragraph 3 of this section) 
Shopping 
Commercial Practices (for Rural Education  Sub-projects as per procedures set forth in 
the Operational Manual) 
3. 
(a) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish or 
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank for approval, appropriate model bidding 
documents.  Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be used, said 
model bidding documents, as approved for bidding under the Project. Any change or 
departure from the model approved shall require Bank’s prior approval. 
-8- 
 
(b) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or group of 
bidders for bid evaluation purposes.  Bidders shall be allowed to submit their bids by 
hand or through the post office or private mailing services.  There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder’s registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in the Borrower’s territory or 
elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in the Borrower’s territory, unless and 
until such bidder is awarded the corresponding contract. 
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents. 
(d)  
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of capability 
and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such determination 
shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation 
criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the amount or 
amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and the 
quantified manner in which they will be applied for purposes of determining the lowest 
evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid 
evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall 
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction of 
arithmetic errors. 
(e) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.47 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder.  Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
-9- 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) 
Goods, 
consultants’ 
services and operating costs 
under Part 1 and Part 3 of the 
Project 
 
11,322,000 
 
100% 
(2) Rural Education Sub-
projects 
 
28,678,000 
100% of the goods, works and 
services required to carry out 
Rural Education Sub-projects 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000 
 
For the purposes of this Section IV, the term “operating costs” means the reasonable costs of 
communications, office supply and utilities, travel, transportation and per diem directly related to 
the performance of the Project activities, which would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
-10- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
within twelve (12) months of this Agreement, but in no case prior to December 20, 2007; or 
 
(c) 
for payments under Category (2) set forth in the table in Part A.2 of this Section, 
unless the Trust Agreement has been executed on behalf of the parties thereto. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
-11- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2025 
 
through October 15, 2026 
 
25% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
-12- 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
-13- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
5. 
“IPPF” means the indigenous peoples development framework for the Project, dated 
March 3, 2007, that details an action plan to assist indigenous peoples and afro-
colombians to overcome barriers to access to education, as said plan may be updated 
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower. 
 
6. 
“IT” means the Project implementation team referred to in paragraph 3(a) of Section I.A 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Key Perfomance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and evaluating 
progress towards the attainment of Project objectives. 
 
8. 
“MEN” means Ministerio de Educación Nacional, the Borrower’s National Ministry of 
Education. 
 
9. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.A.2. of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, dated March 10, 2008, as said manual may be amended from time to 
time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
10, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Rural Education Sub-project Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
-14- 
 
13. 
“Rural Education Sub-project” means a set of activities prepared by a Territorial Entity 
(as hereinafter defined) for the benefit of rural education with the objective to reach  
better and equitable results in terms of access, completion, and quality of learning; said 
activities to include, inter-alia: (a) teacher training; (b) a competency-based curriculum 
(academic, citizenship and work competencies); (c) the use of information and 
communication technologies; (d) improvement of second language teaching; (e) 
strategies to promote peaceful conflict resolution; and (f) the institutionalization of 
teamwork skills, leadership and respect for consensus-building. 
 
14. 
“Territorial Entity” means either a Departamento Certificado (a Borrower’s Department 
certified by MEN to administer education services); or a Municipalidad Certificada (a 
Borrower’s Municipality certified by a Departamento Certificado and/or MEN to 
administer education services); or a Distrito Certificado (a Borrower’s District certified 
by MEN to administer education services), where Rural Education Sub-projects will be 
carried out in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
15. 
“Trust Agent” means any financial service institution that, in accordance with the 
Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 663 of 1993 (Estatuto Orgánico del Sistema 
Financiero), is authorized to perform fiduciary functions involving public funds, to be 
selected by the Borrower for entering into a Trust Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Trust Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B1(a) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the Trust Agent for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project.
 
