CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7585-BB 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second HIV/AIDS Project) 
 
between 
 
BARBADOS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 25, 2008 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7585-BB 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 25, 2008, between BARBADOS (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty five million Dollars ($35,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided that, upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
-2- 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Family, Youth, Sports and 
Environment (acting through the National HIV/AIDS Commission (NHAC)), in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline is the date 
ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in any case no later than eighteen (18) 
months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on February 8, 2010. 
 
-3- 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and Energy 
Government Headquarters, 
Bay Street, 
St. Michael 
Barbados 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Telephone: 
1-246-429-4032  
1-246-436-6435  
 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
-4- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
BARBADOS 
 
By /s/ Michael King 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Alan Carroll 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of the Borrower’s National 
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (NSP), specifically to increase: (a) adoption of safe behaviors, in 
particular amongst key populations at higher risk of HIV/AIDS infection; (b) access to 
prevention, treatment and social care, in particular for said key populations; (c) capacity of 
organizational and institutional structures that govern the National AIDS Program; and (d) use of 
quality data for problem identification, strategy definition and measuring results. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1. Prevention and Care
(a) 
Supporting national program coordination and monitoring to strengthen the capacity of 
the public and private sectors and civil society partners to coordinate, monitor and evaluate their 
activities and use data to increase the quality of their programs by, inter alia, providing grants to 
support, for up to a period of 30 months per grant, subprojects carried out by civil society 
organizations to increase the establishment of self-help and support groups by and for key 
populations at higher risk and to provide for institutional strengthening especially in the areas of 
surveillance and monitoring and evaluation.  
 
(b) 
Supporting the scaling up of prevention efforts to increase access to preventive services, 
including behavior change communication, HIV/AIDS and STI prevention and treatment, and the 
provision of condoms, especially among key populations at higher risk. 
 
(c) 
Supporting the improvement of access to diagnostic services, treatment services and 
social care by people living with HIV with a view to increasing the length and quality of their 
lives. 
 
Part 2. Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening agencies and civil society organizations to support the implementation of the NSP, 
by providing training and technical assistance, that cannot be funded under the NSP, on 
monitoring and evaluation, management, surveillance, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care 
of HIV/AIDS and other STIs. 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower shall operate and maintain within the NHAC, at all times during Project 
implementation, a Project coordinating unit with structure, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to assist the Borrower in: 
(i) procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of the Project; and (ii) 
coordination, monitoring and supervision of the Project. 
2. 
The NHAC shall implement the Project in collaboration with the Borrower’s Ministries 
of Health, Education, Labour, Tourism, Home Affairs, Community Development and 
Culture and Social Care, Constituency Empowerment and Urban Development, as well as 
the Office of the Attorney General and civil society organizations.  
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, such manual to include, inter alia:
(i) 
the Project implementation plan; 
(ii) 
the detailed description of the Eligible Program Expenditures including 
the budgets by year, Borrower’s ministry and procurement category, 
respectively, included under Part 1 of the Project; 
(iii) 
with respect to the grants under Part 1 (a) of the Project: 
(A) 
the criteria for approval and the procedures for the 
implementation and monitoring of subprojects supported by such 
grants; 
(B) 
the criteria for eligibility of the beneficiaries of the grants; and
(C) 
the model grant agreement for the provision of funds and the 
implementation of subprojects;  
(iv) 
the reporting procedures and the agreed format of the Financial 
Statements, chart of accounts and the interim unaudited financial reports; 
(v) 
the detailed description of the Project disbursement mechanism; and 
(vi) 
the procedures for monitoring and evaluating the Project, including a 
description of the technical audit mechanism referred to in paragraph 4 
of Section II.B of this Schedule; 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time 
 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In the case of any conflict between the terms of the 
-7- 
 
Operational Manual and those of this agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
 
prevail.  
4. 
If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the financing under the Project 
was used for items improperly procured in violation of Section III to this Schedule, was 
not used for EPE or, was not supported by evidence of actual spending by the Borrower 
under said EPE and/or by evidence of satisfaction of other criteria set forth in this 
Agreement or in the Operational Manual, the Borrower shall promptly refund any such 
portion to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
By October 15, 2008, the Borrower shall hire in its Ministry of Family, Youth, Sports and 
Environment a financial management specialist with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank.   
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Biomedical Waste 
Management Action Plan. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout Project implementation, the Infection Control 
Unit of the Borrower’s Queen Elizabeth Hospital, with staffing and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of the Project.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) 
of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of the period covered by such report.  
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the 
following:  
 
(i) 
Maintain the percentage of young people aged 15-24 years 
spontaneously indicating sexual relations as a way of transmitting HIV at 
a level of at least 90% during 2008 to 2013. 
 
(ii) 
Increase the percentage of sex workers who report the use of a condom 
with their most recent client from 80% in 2008 to 95% in 2013. 
 
-8- 
 
(iii) 
Increase the percentage of men who have sex with men reporting the use 
of a condom the last time they had sex from 65% in 2008 to 75% in 
2013. 
 
(iv) 
Increase the percentage of young people aged 15-24 years reporting the 
use of a condom the last time they had sex with a non-marital, non-
cohabitating sexual partner from 21% in 2008 to 31 % in 2013. 
 
(v) 
Increase in the number of people from key populations at higher risk 
accessing preventive services from 250 in 2009 to 500 in 2013. 
 
(vi) 
Maintain the percentage of HIV-positive pregnant women receiving a 
complete course of anti-retroviral prophylaxis to reduce the risk of 
mother to child transmission above 95% during 2008 to 2013. 
 
(vii) 
Maintain the percentage of people living with HIV on antiretroviral 
treatment achieving virologic success in the last 12 months above 70% 
during 2008 to 2013. 
 
(viii) 
Increase in the funds disbursed to civil society organizations under 
results-based agreements with the NHAC to facilitate implementation of 
targeted program interventions for key populations at higher risk during 
2008 to 2013. 
 
(ix) 
Prepare a Strategic Plan for 2013-2018 based on surveillance and 
monitoring and evaluation data gathered during the Project.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
4. 
The Borrower shall hire an entity, independent of the Borrower and satisfactory to the 
Bank, with experience in HIV/AIDS program implementation and monitoring and 
evaluation, to conduct audits, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the 
Project twice during the Project, particularly focused on the achievement of the technical 
results that are linked to disbursements of the Loan.  
-9- 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for 
goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Limited International Bidding 
(b) National Competitive Bidding  
(c) Shopping  
(d) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
-10- 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-Source Selection 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Eligible Program 
 Expenditures (EPE) 
 
31,412,500 
35% 
subject 
to 
Part 
B 
paragraphs 1 through 4 below 
 
(2) Goods and consultants’ 
services under Part 2 of the 
Project 
 
3,500,000 
79% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
87,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 
2.07 
(b) 
of 
the 
General Conditions 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.07 
(c) 
of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
35,000,000 
 
-11- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed 20% of the Loan amount may be made for EPE incurred  
within no more than one year prior to the date of this Agreement but on or after April 1, 2008; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made under Category (1) unless all conditions referred to in the 
additional instructions  referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule (including compliance with 
the Milestones and DLIs, referred to in the Appendix to this Agreement, when applicable) have 
been met. 
 
2.  
If the Bank has: 
 
(a) 
received evidence of partial compliance with the Milestone that corresponds to 
the relevant withdrawal referred to in paragraphs 1 (b) through (k) of Section IV of the additional 
instructions (referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule), then the maximum amount of the 
corresponding withdrawal shall be reduced in proportion to the degree of non-compliance of the 
said Milestone (in addition to the reduction that may also result from application of paragraph 2 
(b)(i) below); 
 
(b)  
received evidence of partial compliance with one or more Disbursement-linked 
Indicators (DLI) that corresponds to the relevant withdrawal referred to in paragraphs 1 (b) 
through (k) of Section IV of the additional instructions (referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this 
Schedule), then: (i) the Bank shall allocate a base value of $1 million for each DLI that has been 
partially complied with and reduce the maximum amount of the corresponding withdrawal by 
that portion of said base value that corresponds to the degree of non-compliance with the relevant 
DLI; (ii) the Borrower shall submit to the Bank a time-bound action plan to achieve, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, such target or targets set forth in the relevant subparagraph of paragraph 
1 of Section IV of the additional instructions (referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule); and 
(iii) as soon as the Bank is satisfied that such action plan has been implemented, the Bank shall 
authorize the withdrawal of the amount by which the corresponding withdrawal had been 
reduced, by application of the formula defined in 2(b)(i), at the time of the next scheduled 
disbursement; and 
 
(c)  
reduced the withdrawal provided for in any of the paragraphs 1(b) through (j) of 
Section IV of the additional instructions (referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule), due to 
partial compliance with the Milestones or DLIs, then the Bank shall authorize the unwithdrawn 
portion of the Loan resulting from this partial compliance to be carried forward to the eleventh 
withdrawal referred to in paragraph 1(k) of Section IV of the additional instructions (referred to 
in Section IV.A.1 of this Schedule), except in so far as the amount by which the withdrawal has 
been reduced was subsequently disbursed by operation of paragraph 2(b)(iii) above. 
 
3. 
In the event that the Bank has not approved a full withdrawal by the Borrower of the 
Loan proceeds under Category 1, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower cancel the 
corresponding amount of the Loan at the time of the eleventh disbursement (as referred to in 
-12- 
 
paragraph 1 (k) of Section IV of the additional instructions (referred to in Section IV.A.1 of this 
Schedule).  
 
4. 
A table of projected EPE required for the determination of compliance with the related 
Milestone and, in the case of partial compliance, necessary for the calculation of the pro-rated 
amount of the corresponding withdrawal, is set forth at paragraph 1 of the Annex to Schedule 2 of 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
Closing Date is November 30, 2013. 
 
-13- 
 
Annex A 
 
to 
 
SCHEDULE  2 
 
Provisions Applicable to Calculating  
the amount of Withdrawals  
referred to in Paragraph 1 of Section IV.B of  Schedule 2  
 
1. 
Projected Eligible Program Expenditures (EPE) 
 
Period 
First half 
FY09 
Total 
FY09 
FY10 
FY11 
FY12 
 
Projected 
EPE in 
US Dollars 
 
6,500,000 
 
14,116,654 
 
17,685,773 
 
20,939,724 
 
24,686,644 
-14- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2013  
 
through February 15, 2038 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
-15- 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-16- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Biomedical Waste Management Action Plan” means the plan for the management of 
biomedical waste prepared by the Borrower under Part B.8 (b) of the HIV/AIDS 
Prevention and Control Project, as referred to in Loan Agreement number 7066-BAR 
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank on July 6, 2001. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Disbursement-linked Indicator” or “DLI” means  any of the following indicators: (a) the 
percentage of HIV-positive pregnant women receiving a complete course of anti-
retroviral prophylaxis to reduce the risk of mother to child transmission; (b) the 
percentage of young people aged 15-24 years  spontaneously indicating sexual relations 
as a way of transmitting HIV; and (c) the percentage of young people aged 15-24 
reporting the use of a condom the last time they had sex with a non-marital, non-
cohabitating sexual partner. 
 
7. 
“Eligible Program Expenditures” or “EPE” means the expenditures for the reasonable 
cost of goods, consultants’ services, Grants and operational costs necessary to carry out 
Part 1 of the Project (and thus constitutes a subset of the Eligible Expenditures defined in 
the General Conditions).  
 
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s financial year April 1 of the preceding year through 
March 31 of the stated year.  
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
10. 
“Grants” means expenditures for goods and consultants’ services under Part 1(a) of the 
Project, incurred by civil society organizations using the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
11. 
“HIV” means Human Immune-deficiency Virus. 
 
-17- 
 
12. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, dated August 5, 2008, for the operation of the 
Project referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as the 
same may be amended from time to time. 
 
13. 
“Milestone” means either of the following indicators: (a) approval by the Borrower of an 
increase of the NSP budget to a stated sum for the corresponding Fiscal Year; or (b) 
disbursal by the Borrower of at least 70% of the EPE for the corresponding Fiscal Year.   
 
14. 
“National AIDS Program” means the Borrower’s program to prevent and control AIDS at 
a national level.  
 
15. 
“NHAC” means the Borrower’s National HIV/AIDS Commission established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Cabinet Decision Number 1369/MH 61, dated November 23, 2000.   
 
16. 
“NSP” means National Strategic Plan for HIV Prevention and Control 2008-2013, which 
is the five year strategic plan developed by the Borrower to prevent and control 
HIV/AIDS and approved by the Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers on March 27, 2008. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits”, published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated June 
24, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“STI” means sexually transmitted infections. 
 
