 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7592-MX 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Savings and Rural Finance Second Phase Project) 
Second Additional Financing  
 
 
between 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated November 21, 2008  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7592-ME 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated November 21, 2008, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”) represented by its SHCP and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as 
set forth in the table in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the 
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement), shall be used in conformity with the 
requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of 
this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:   
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Director General of BANSEFI, or the Director General Adjunto 
de Banca Institucional of BANSEFI or any person or persons whom they shall 
jointly designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
 
- 2 - 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, at any time, request any 
of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to 
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
- 3 - 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause BANSEFI to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that any of 
the events of suspension referred to in Article V of the Original Loan Agreement 
has occurred. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Mandato Contract has been modified in a manner acceptable to the Bank so 
as to reflect changes in implementation arrangements under this Loan Agreement 
as compared to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on March 9, 2010. 
 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of 
SHCP. 
 
- 4 - 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General 
Conditions is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening the SCI 
sector with SCIs which are compliant with the Popular Savings and Credit Law, financially 
viable, operationally effective, managerially sound, technologically upgraded, and 
providing an enhanced level of outreach and access to financial services by the underserved 
Mexican populations.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
Part A:  Strengthening SCIs and the Regulation and Supervision Thereof 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to about 375 individual SCIs requiring further 
assistance to that provided under the Prior Loan, and to additional SCIs, as the case may be:  
(a) 
to carry out assessments of its financial and managerial condition so as to 
determine, inter alia, whether an SCI qualifies for authorization by CNBV to operate as an 
Entidad, whether an SCI requires technical assistance for its strengthening or restructuring 
in order to qualify for such authorization, or whether an SCI should be liquidated;  
(b) 
to support the design and implementation of institutional strengthening 
plans to allow SCIs to qualify for such authorization;  
(c) 
to, with respect to the SCIs additional to those assisted in the Prior Project 
with operations in the Expansion Project Area, if any, develop a financial services outreach 
and communications strategy focusing on the low-income populations within the said area; 
and  
(d) 
in support of liquidation of unviable SCIs. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to individual SCIs requiring further assistance to 
that provided under the Prior Loan, to specifically develop strategies to deepen penetration 
and expand their financial services outreach, and to improve their effectiveness and 
efficiency. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance on aspects relating to the creation and functioning 
of the Deposit Protection Fund at the level of Federación and Confederación. 
 
- 6 - 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to assist BANSEFI in the management and 
monitoring of the assistance provided to SCIs by consultants in particular as to their 
classification and certification, and to the consistency in the application of classification 
guidelines across individual SCIs by such consultants. 
5. 
Carrying out training and technical assistance programs for: 
(a) 
the staff of SCIs, focusing on the areas of accounting and financial 
management, portfolio management, risk management, credit analysis, governance aspects, 
market analysis and understanding, and management of SCIs at the level of Federación; and 
(b) 
staff of CNBV, BANSEFI and Federaciones to support their regulatory and 
supervisory roles. 
Part B:  Developing a Technology Platform  
1. 
Provision of services to strengthen the technological capacity of BANSEFI and the 
SCIs including, inter alia, a data center, and virtual private network services for 
connectivity. 
2. 
Provision to the SCIs of:  
(a) 
an application package; 
(b) 
data warehouse, enterprise resource planning system, and internet-based 
banking; and 
(c) 
other technological developments proposed by BANSEFI and agreed to by 
the Bank. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance: 
(a) 
to manage and monitor the quality of the hardware and operational services 
referred to under Part B.1 of the Project, and the application software and other items 
referred to in Part B. 2 of the Project; 
(b) 
to develop a strategy and an organizational plan for BANSEFI’s service of 
technology platform support; 
(c) 
to verify and validate the application software; and 
 
- 7 - 
(d) 
to manage and monitor implementation of the technology platform 
(developed under this Part B to the Project) in the SCIs. 
Part C: Monitoring and Evaluation, Studies and Information Dissemination 
1. 
Improvement of the size and credibility of the annual household surveys carried out 
by BANSEFI, interpreting the data collected through these surveys, and ensuring the 
consistency of the various datasets. 
2. 
Evaluation of the implementation performance and short-term outcomes of Parts A 
and B of the Project. 
3. 
Focusing the content of the dissemination campaign carried out by BANSEFI to 
disseminate information on the SCIs to instill confidence in their clients, to market the 
benefits of financial intermediation, and to disseminate the range of financial products 
provided under the new technology platform referred to in Part B of the Project. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to develop new savings and financial products and 
services, to price the technology platform services, and to carry out selected studies, 
proposed by the Borrower and/or BANSEFI, and approved by the Bank, on subjects 
relevant to the SCI sector and to sustainable development in general. 
5. 
Carrying out workshops and seminars to disseminate the findings of the monitoring 
and evaluation outcomes and studies referred to in Part C of the Project. 
Part D: Project Management 
Establishment and operation of the Core Team, including training, as may be 
required, for Project implementation. 
 
- 8 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
All implementation arrangements referred to in Article III and Schedule 6 of the 
Original Loan Agreement, shall apply for the execution of the Project.  
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
relevant Social Development Model, when applicable. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause BANSEFI to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
 
- 9 - 
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods.  All goods (which include non-consultant services) required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Limited International Bidding 
(d) Direct Contracting 
 
 
- 10 - 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Single Source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, pursuant to the Mandato 
Contract withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower and/or to BANSEFI 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures and 
the Front-end Fee as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
- 11 - 
 
 
 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category 
Dollars) 
to be Financed 
 
(1) 
Goods 
 
1,645,000 
47% 
 
(2) 
Consultant services 
7,750,000 
47% 
 
(3) 
Training  
1,200,000 
47% 
 
(4) 
Non-Consultants’ services 
24,600,000 
47% 
 
 
(5) 
Incremental operating costs 
14,680,000 
47% 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
-0- 
Amount due under 
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.07 (c) of 
 
 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) 
Front-end-Fee 
125,000 
Amount due under 
 
 
 
Section 2.03 of this 
 
 
 
Agreement 
 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 
50,000,000 
 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “non-consultants’ services” includes the cost of services relating 
to the development and operation of the technology platform, and other expenditures as 
appropriate, all included under Part A and Part B of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “incremental operating costs” includes: (i) reasonable recurrent 
expenditures incurred in connection with the execution of the Project (including the Core 
Team) for rentals, travel, room, board and per diem expenditures, maintenance, 
consumable materials and supplies and utilities (but not including any salaries); (ii) costs 
incurred by the SCIs for adoption of the technology platform, including cost for data 
migration incurred at the SCIs; and technical assistance to the SCIs (as necessary); all 
which would not have been incurred absent the Project; and 
 
- 12 - 
(c) 
the term “training” includes only: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem expenditures incurred by trainees in connection with their training; (ii) 
reasonable fees charged by consultants serving as trainers; (iii) reasonable course fees 
charged by academic institutions; (iv) reasonable training facility and equipment rental 
expenses; and (v) reasonable training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this paragraph. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made within twelve (12) months prior to the date of this Agreement, but in no case prior 
to January 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures.  Furthermore, no withdrawals shall be 
made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
End Fee referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2012. 
 
- 13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on September 15, 
2023. 
 
 
- 14 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
5. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement dated October 1, 2004 
(Loan Number 7240-ME), as amended on March 27, 2007 through the additional 
Loan Number 7438-ME for a loan in the amount of twenty nine million Dollars 
($29,000,000) between the Borrower and the Bank for the purposes of financing 
the Project. 
 
6. 
“Prior Loan” means a loan in the amount of sixty four million six hundred 
thousand Dollars ($64,600,000), in terms of the agreement entered into between 
the Borrower and the Bank on February 28, 2003. 
 
7. 
“Prior Project” means a project in support of the Savings and Credit Sector 
Strengthening and Rural Microfinance Capacity Building Technical Assistance 
Project, which Project is financed with the Prior Loan. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 29, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
10. 
“SCI” means a Mexican savings and credit institution which, independently of its 
corporative or other organizational form, is subject to the provisions of the 
 
- 15 - 
Popular Savings and Credit Law, and any other financial institution agreed to 
with the Bank. 
 
11. 
The terms “BANSEFI”, “CNBV”, “Confederación”, “Core Team”, “Deposit 
Protection Fund”, “Entidad”, “Expansion Project Area”, “Federación”, “IPDP”, 
“Mandato Contract”, “Popular Savings and Credit Law”, “SHCP”, “Social 
Development Model” have the meaning ascribed to them in the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
 
