CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7647-ME 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Land Administration and Management Project) 
 
between 
 
MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 30, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7647-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 30, 2008, between MONTENEGRO (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eleven million Euros (EUR 
11,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through READ and Parts 
B and C of the Project through MED in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the 
Borrower has amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived the legislation 
governing real estate administration, planning or business permitting in such a 
way that, in the opinion of the Bank, it materially and adversely affects the ability 
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement and to 
achieve the objectives of the Project.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Stanka Dragojevica 2 
81000 Podgorica 
Montenegro 
 
Facsimile:  
 
382 81 224 450 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
4
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Podgorica, Montenegro, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MONTENEGRO 
 
By /s/ Igor Luksic 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jan-Peter Olters 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s 
permitting and property registration system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A. Real Estate Administration
Carrying out works and provision of goods, consultants’ services and training 
for:  
 
1. 
Designing new and/or renovating READ’s building facilities in Podgorica and 
across the country, and improving READ’s registration services. 
 
2. 
Developing READ’s information systems and implementing a Geoportal for 
public access. 
 
3. 
Strengthening READ’s capacity to produce basic maps and develop the cadastral 
index layer for selected sites in the mountainous areas. 
 
4. 
Completing the real estate cadastre (REC). 
 
Part B. Improving Planning and Permitting
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training (including study tours) for 
improving the planning and permitting processes and strengthening the capacity of MED 
and the municipalities to support said processes, including:  
 
1.  
Support to MED in reviewing, completing and implementing the legal and 
regulatory framework for planning and monitoring local plans.  
 
2.  
Support to municipalities in improving the planning processes and completion of 
plans.  
 
3.  
Improving the construction permitting and inspection system.  
 
4.  
Support to MED in improving other business environment related aspects.  
 
7
Part C.
Support for Project Management
Support to the PCU and the TSU in the implementation of the Project, through 
the carrying out of works, the provision of goods, consultants’ services and training, the 
carrying out of audits required under the Project and the financing of Operating Costs.  
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, maintain the Project 
Steering Committee with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
The Project Steering Committee, which shall meet at least on a quarterly basis, shall be 
responsible for making decisions on issues relating to Project implementation and 
approving Annual Work Plans and Project Reports. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, within two (2) months from the Effectiveness Date, establish 
and thereafter maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the Project Coordination 
Unit. The PCU shall be responsible for overall implementation, coordination, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project, including providing guidance on ICT- related activities and 
procurement under the Project, and coordinating activities benefiting municipalities. To 
this end, the Borrower shall maintain, adequately fund and staff the PCU with 
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The PCU shall comprise 
experts to assist MED in the implementation of Part B of the Project, to establish, within 
MED, sustainable capacity in urban planning, permitting and inspection, and to 
coordinate activities with municipalities. READ and MED shall each appoint a 
coordinator in charge of, respectively, Parts A and B of the Project.   
 
3. 
TSU shall be responsible for procurement and financial management of the 
Project under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Operational Manual and the Procurement Plan and, to this end, the 
Borrower shall maintain, adequately fund and staff the TSU with qualifications and terms 
of reference acceptable to the Bank.   
 
B. 
Implementation Covenants 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, by November 30 in each calendar year throughout the 
duration of the Project, submit to the Bank an Annual Work Plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, including a procurement plan and a training plan for the 
subsequent calendar year. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, within six (6) months from the Effectiveness Date, adopt the 
Operational Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, and shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said Manual without prior written 
approval of the Bank. 
 
9
C
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards. 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Assessment, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of 
said Assessment without prior written approval of the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no works under Part A.1 of the Project involve 
land acquisition or resettlement of population. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Part B of the Project and prior to initiating any activity in 
relation to the preparation of any spatial or urban plan in a municipality which has 
approved its participation in the Project and where the Project will be supporting the 
preparation of said plan, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, with said municipality. Each such agreement shall 
provide, inter alia:
(a) 
the co-financing provided by the municipality concerned;  
 
(b) 
the requirement for said municipality to designate a person responsible 
for coordinating with the PCU;  
 
(c) 
that no structure constructed prior to January 1, 2008 will be demolished 
involuntarily until a spatial or urban plan, as the case may be, has been finalized through 
a consultative process in accordance with guidelines agreed upon among the 
municipality, the Borrower and the Bank; and    
 
(d) 
that the Borrower, the municipality concerned and the PCU shall review 
and, where necessary, formulate proposals to improve existing municipal procedures and 
practices regarding involuntary demolitions, with the aim of ensuring that such 
procedures and practices are consistent with Agreed Principles of Due Process,
satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the moratorium on involuntary demolition 
referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph 3(c) shall apply as well to any central 
government agency that may have powers to demolish buildings in said municipality. 
 
5. 
For purposes of Part A.1 of the Project and prior to the commencement of works 
for each proposed site, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its approval: (a) the 
proposed site for said works and the related site-specific environmental management plan 
and checklist, said site-specific plan and checklist to be in form and substance 
10
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) the proposed contract for said works to ensure that the 
provisions of said site-specific plan and checklist are adequately included in said 
contract.  
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through TSU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing 
with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project was made. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
11
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Shopping 
 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding - with the modifications set forth in  
 
paragraph 3 below 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower’s National Competitive Bidding Procedures: 
 
(i) 
Eligibility: foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(ii) 
Procedures: “Open procedures" shall be followed in all cases. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(iii) 
Pre-qualification: when pre-qualification shall be required for large or 
complex works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised 
12
in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum 
of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(iv) 
Participation by government-owned enterprises: government-owned 
enterprises in Montenegro shall be eligible to participate in bidding only 
if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
government. Such enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(v) 
Bidding documents: procuring entities shall use the appropriate 
standard bidding documents for the procurement of works which shall 
contain draft contract and conditions of contract, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(vi) 
Submission of bids: bidders may, at their option, deliver bids either in 
person, by courier service, or by mail at any time prior to the deadline set 
the submission of bids. 
 
(vii) 
Bid opening and bid evaluation: bids shall be opened in public and, if 
two envelopes are submitted for technical and price components, both 
shall be opened simultaneously.  The time for the bid opening shall be 
the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter, 
and shall be announced, together with the place for bid opening, in the 
solicitation documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict 
adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not 
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested 
without the prior approval of the Bank. Contracts shall be awarded to 
qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially 
responsive bid. Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidder or any other bidder. 
 
(viii) 
Price adjustment: civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than 
eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment 
clause. 
 
(ix) 
Rejection of bids: all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited 
without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(x) 
Contracts: all contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by 
authorized signatories of the purchaser and the supplier, and shall contain 
identical terms and conditions of contract to those included in the tender 
documents. 
13
(xi) 
Securities: bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the 
estimated cost of the contract; performance securities shall not exceed 
ten percent (10%). No advance payments shall be made to contractors 
without a suitable advance payment security. The wording of all such 
securities shall be included into the bidding documents and be acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications 
 
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(c) Single Source Selection 
 
(d) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(e) Least-Cost Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
14
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euros)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
services and training  
 
10,972,500
50% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
27,500
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate  
 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
11,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2014. 
 
15
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date[, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
October 1, 2013 
 
12% 
April 1, 2014 
 
11.5% 
October 1, 2014 
 
11% 
April 1, 2015 
 
10.5% 
October 1, 2015 
 
10.5% 
April 1, 2016 
 
10% 
October 1, 2016 
 
9.5% 
April 1, 2017 
 
9% 
October 1, 2017 
 
8.5% 
April 1, 2018 
 
 
 
 
        7.5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
16
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
17
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Agreed Principles of Due Process” means the agreed principles of due process 
referred to in paragraph D.3 (d), Section I of Schedule II to this Agreement, 
which shall include, inter alia: (a) clear standards and criteria for the use of 
demolitions; (b) clearly defined, transparent and fair procedures by which a 
decision to demolish is made; (c) sufficient advance notice and a fair opportunity 
to challenge a decision prior to demolition; and (d) the information of citizens on 
their rights and remedies in relation to said procedures and practices. 
2. 
“Annual Work Plans” means the annual work plans referred to in Section I, B.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Part A.2, Section IV of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the assessment dated February 28, 2008, 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of 
the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures required for the 
Project and to be taken to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, 
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to 
implement said measures, including the measures and information required for 
the preparation of site-specific environmental management plans and checklists 
referred to in paragraph D.5, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
8. 
“Ministry of Economic Development” or “MED” means the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Economic Development and includes any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and 
includes any successor thereto. 
 
18
10. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the PCU and 
TSU on account of the Project implementation, including the purchase and 
maintenance of a vehicle (including fuel costs), costs of office rental, translation, 
communication, printing and publications, supplies, local travel costs and field 
trip expenses (including per diems), and salaries paid to staff hired for purposes 
of the Project, other than civil servants’ salaries.    
11. 
“Operational 
Manual” 
means 
the 
manual 
describing 
procedures 
for 
implementation of the Project, to be adopted by the Borrower in accordance with 
paragraph B.2, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and satisfactory to the 
Bank, and including, inter alia: (a) procedures governing staffing, procurement, 
accounting, financial management, including adequate measures for procurement 
and forensic audits, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; and (b) the 
financial management manual. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 29, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the Borrower’s project 
coordination unit to be established and maintained within MED in accordance 
with paragraph A.2, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the Project steering committee established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s decision dated June 12, 2008, and maintained by the 
Borrower in accordance with paragraph A.1, Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and comprising representatives of MOF, MED, READ and the 
Union of municipalities. 
 
16. 
“READ” means the Borrower’s real estate administration department within 
MOF, and includes any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“TSU” means the Technical Services Unit within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance. 
 
