CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7558-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Xi’an Sustainable Urban Transport Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 29, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
September 
29,
2008,
between 
the 
PEOPLE’S  
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 -
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
On each of the semiannual Payment Dates specified in Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, the interest 
on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up to the 
amount allocated in, Category (4) of the table in paragraph A.2, Section IV, 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Category may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall, through Shaanxi Province, cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
- 3 -
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that, any 
of the parties to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have failed to perform any 
of its respective obligations thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve transport 
accessibility and mobility in Xi’an Municipality while protecting its cultural heritage and 
reducing the environmental impact of the urban transport system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Road Network  
 
1.  
Improvements at selected sites to enhance the functionality of the First and 
Second Ring Roads and Taibai Nan Road as major traffic routes in Xi’an 
Municipality.  
 
2. 
Upgrading of the road network by improvement of the existing Xincheng and 
Dongcheng primary roads and of the existing Meibei secondary road, and 
construction of the new Lvgong primary road, including a rail underpass, to 
improve accessibility in the urban area of Hu Xian within Xi’an Municipality.   
 
Part B: Public Transport   
 
1. 
Construction of two new passenger transport terminals to be located in the:  
(i) eastern part of Xi’an Municipality; and (ii) southern part of Xi’an 
Municipality. 
2. 
Development and implementation of integrated public transport priority and 
traffic management packages in about thirteen (13) selected bus corridors in 
Xi’an Municipality with a total length of about 130 kilometers, including 
provision of technical assistance therefor. 
 
3. 
Construction of a bus depot at Xinzhu to enable the expansion of services in the 
north east sector of Xi’an Municipality between the Second and Third ring roads.    
 
Part C: Traffic Management 
 
Development and implementation of selected traffic management and road safety 
measures to enhance the operation of the existing road network in Xi’an 
Municipality, including enforcement of road user education programs, and 
provision of: (i) an area traffic control (ATC) system; (ii) road safety equipment 
and software: (iii) vehicle parking equipment; (iv) traffic facilities for pedestrian 
and cyclists; and (v) technical assistance therefor.  
- 6 -
Part D: Air Quality Management    
 
Implementation of Xi’an Municipality Environmental Protection Bureau’s 
comprehensive plans for air quality improvement and reduction of vehicular 
emissions, including: (i) construction of Xi'an Municipality Ambient Air 
Supervising and Monitoring Center; (ii) provision of equipment for motor 
vehicle emission inspections; (iii) construction of two ambient air quality 
monitoring sub-stations and two traffic air pollution monitoring sub-stations 
and provision of equipment for those sub-stations; (iv) provision of equipment 
and software for air quality assessment and information publication; (v) 
development of a motor vehicle emission control plan; and (vi) provision of 
technical assistance therefor.  
 
Part E: Cultural Heritage    
 
1. 
Preservation of the cultural heritage of the Han Chang’an site by recreating about 
8.4 kilometres of the old Han Dynasty road network in the area of the Weiyang 
Palace. 
 
2. 
Construction of about 27 kilometers of bicycle routes around the main tourist 
sites inside the Ming Wall City.  
 
Part F: Institutional Development    
 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of Xi’an Municipality in integrated 
public transport planning and development through, inter alia:  
 
1. 
carrying out studies on: (a) strategic urban transport planning; and (b) financial 
planning for investments in transport infrastructure in order to develop capacity 
to formulate investment plans;  
 
2. 
provision of technical assistance to improve capacity in the areas of traffic 
management and road safety; and  
 
3.  
provision of domestic and international staff training.  
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangement; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangement 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through Shaanxi, shall make available to the Project 
Implementing Entity the proceeds of the Loan under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the following:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years. 
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
A Front-end Fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Bank.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.   
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
- 8 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the six (6) months period of each 
Project Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.   
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.   
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International and National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
- 9 -
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
3. 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures. Goods and Works procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures shall 
be subject to the following additional procedures: 
 
(a) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s 
Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
- 10 -
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower, Xi’an Municipality or 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
- 11 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.   
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality based selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(c) 
Single source selection 
(d) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) all contracts 
for goods and civil works procured through International Competitive Bidding 
regardless of the contract value; (b) each contract for civil works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more; (c)  all contracts for goods procured 
through National Competitive Bidding estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more; (d) the first contract for each procurement method regardless 
of the contract value; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for firms, and $50,000 or more for 
individuals.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures, inclusive of 
taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
- 12 -
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(USD) 
Percentage of 
expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) Civil Works 
 
 
a) under Parts A, B, C and E.2 
of the Project 
98,829,000 
50% 
b) under Part D of the Project 
3,312,000 
55% 
c) under Part E.1 of the Project 
8,049,000 
90% 
(2) Goods 
 
a) under Parts B, D, and E of 
the Project 
10,292,000 
100% 
b) under Part C of the Project 
10,822,000 
50% 
(3) Consultants’ services 
 
 
a) under Part C of the Project 
2,423,000 
90% 
b) under Parts D, F.1(b), F.2 
and F.3 of the Project 
2,190,000 
100% 
c) under Part F.1(a) of the 
Project 
845,000 
40% 
(4) Interest during construction 
12,863,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement 
(5) Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL 
150,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for:  
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
 
(b)  
expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3) unless:  
 
- 13 -
(i) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Project Implementing Entity and the Infrastructure 
Investment Corporation of Xi’an; and  
 
(ii) 
a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, from counsel acceptable 
to the Bank has been provided to the Bank showing that the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Project Implementing Entity and the Infrastructure 
Investment Corporation of Xi’an and is legally binding upon the 
Project Implementing Entity and the Infrastructure Investment 
Corporation of Xi’an in accordance with its terms. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
September 15, 2014 
1.61% 
March 15, 2015 
1.65% 
September 15, 2015 
1.69% 
March 15, 2016 
1.73% 
September 15, 2016 
1.78% 
March 15, 2017 
1.82% 
September 15, 2017 
1.87% 
March 15, 2018 
1.91% 
September 15, 2018 
1.96% 
March 15, 2019 
2.01% 
September 15, 2019 
2.06% 
March 15, 2020 
2.11% 
September 15, 2020 
2.17% 
March 15, 2021 
2.22% 
September 15, 2021 
2.27% 
March 15, 2022 
2.33% 
September 15, 2022 
2.39% 
March 15, 2023 
2.45% 
September 15, 2023 
2.51% 
March 15, 2024 
2.57% 
September 15, 2024 
2.64% 
March 15, 2025 
2.70% 
September 15, 2025 
2.77% 
March 15, 2026 
2.84% 
September 15, 2026 
2.91% 
March 15, 2027 
2.98% 
September 15, 2027 
3.06% 
March 15, 2028 
3.14% 
- 15 -
September 15, 2028 
3.21% 
March 15, 2029 
3.29% 
September 15, 2029 
3.38% 
March 15, 2030 
3.46% 
September 15, 2030 
3.55% 
March 15, 2031 
3.64% 
September 15, 2031 
3.73% 
March 15, 2032 
3.82% 
September 15, 2032 
3.92% 
March 15, 2033 
3.85% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
- 16 -
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
- 17 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.   
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated April 2008 duly 
adopted by Xi’an Municipality, which Plan sets out the environmental protection 
measures in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.   
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
6. 
“Infrastructure Investment Corporation of Xi’an” and the acronym “IIC” means 
the corporation established by Xi’an as a state-owned enterprise on  
July 18, 2000, under business license no.6101001400306. 
 
7. 
“Ming Walled City” means the area of the Ming Dynasty City demarked by a 
high brick wall and located in Xi’an Municipality. 
 
8. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 24, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
11. 
“Project Financial Manual” means the manual dated March 31, 2008 adopted by 
Xi’an Municipality, which sets out the financial management policies and 
- 18 -
procedures to be followed in respect of Project implementation and financial 
management reports. 
 
12. 
“Project Implementing Entity” and the acronym “PIE” means the Xi’an 
Municipality. 
 
13. 
“Project Implementation Plan” and the acronym “PIP” means the plan dated 
April 30, 2008, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for the purpose of 
carrying out the Project, which plan set out, inter alia: (i) an implementation 
schedule which will clearly identify the start and completion of each activity at 
the subcomponent level; (ii) Annual Works Programs (AWP); and (iii) a 
Financing Plan.  
 
14. 
“Project 
Steering 
Committee” 
means 
the 
Committee 
established 
on  
March 29, 2005, by Xi’an Municipality, headed by a Vice-Mayor of Xi’an 
Municipality and composed of representatives of the following Xi’an 
Municipality agencies: Xi’an Development and Reform Commission, Xi’an 
Municipal Finance Bureau, Xi’an Municipal Planning Bureau, Xi’an Municipal 
Construction Bureau, Xi’an Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau, Xi’an 
Municipal Communication Bureau, Xi’an Municipal Civil Administration 
Bureau, Xi’an Municipal National Land and Resources Bureau, Xi’an Municipal 
Cultural Heritage Bureau, Xi’an Municipal Public Security Bureau and Xi’an 
Infrastructure Investment Corporation, for the purpose of providing overall 
policy guidance in Project preparation and implementation, and any successor 
thereto.   
 
15. 
“RAPs” means the Resettlement Action Plans dated September 1, 2007,  
April 2008, June 2007, and May 31, 2007, duly adopted by Xi’an Municipality 
and to be implemented  by the Project Implementation Entity for purposes of 
carrying out Parts A, B.1(ii), D and E.1 of the Project, respectively, which plans 
sets out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation under such Parts of the Project, as well as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as 
the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and 
such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to each said plans.   
 
16. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework dated April 2007, duly 
adopted by Xi’an Municipality and to be implemented  by the Project 
Implementation Entity for purposes of carrying out the Project and on the basis 
of which specific resettlement action plans shall be prepared and adopted by 
Xi’an Municipality and implemented  by the Project Implementation Entity for 
carrying out Parts B.1(i), B.2 and B.3 of the Project, which Policy Framework 
sets out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation under such Part of the Project to be set forth in a 
resettlement action plan or action plans, as the case may be, as well as reporting 
and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said Policy Framework 
- 19 -
and plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to 
said RPF and action plan or action plans.  
 
17. 
“Shaanxi” means the Borrower’s Shaanxi Province and any successor thereto.    
 
18. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which Xi’an Muncipality shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to IIC. 
 
19. 
“Xi’an Municipality” or “Xi’an” means the municipality of the Borrower’s 
Shaanxi Province, comprising nine districts (Baqiao, Beilin, Changan, Lianhu, 
Lintong, Weiyang, Xincheng, Yanliang, and Yanta) and four counties (Gaoling, 
Hu 
Xian 
Lantian 
and 
Zhouzhi) 
and 
any 
successor 
thereto.
 
