CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7561 JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Employer Driven Skills Development Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 8, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7561 JO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 8, 2008, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF 
JORDAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions 
or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven million five hundred thousand 
United States dollars (US$7,500,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with  
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. On or promptly after the Effectiveness 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of said fees. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
- 2 -
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Fixed Rate to a Variable Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower, through MoL, shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
 
The Development Coordination Unit of MoL has adequate staffing to coordinate 
and support the implementation of the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
 
- 3 -
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Post office Box 555  
Amman, 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
962-6-464 9341 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By /s/ Suhair Al-Ali 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani  
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving its TVET 
sector through the harmonization of policies pertaining to the development of said sector 
and the realignment of such policies with the operational functions of E-TVET, including 
the development of employer participation in the formulation of said policies and in 
carrying out institutional development reforms as well as in the design and delivery of a 
skills development program.  
The Project consists of the following four parts: 
Part 1: Development of TVET sector and E-TVET Council
Developing the policy, operational and institutional capacity of E-TVET Council 
and its Secretariat, regarding employment-related planning, implementation and 
training, with the participation of employers, public and private training 
providers, and the Training and Employment Fund, as well as other stakeholders, 
through: 
(a) 
Establishing the organizational structure and institutional mechanisms 
for the E-TVET system. 
(b) 
Research and studies pertaining to the design and delivery of a skills 
development program. 
(c) 
Workshops and seminars for the benefit of the members of E-TVET 
Council, representatives of employers and the business community. 
(d) 
Public awareness campaigns, piloting and knowledge sharing to promote 
E-TVET sector.  
Part 2: Restructuring of VTC
Developing and implementing an employer-driven model for VTC to deliver 
efficient and effective business and training services, including improving the 
financial and governance frameworks for VTC, through: 
(a) 
Strengthening VTC’s governance and institutional frameworks. 
(b) 
Establishing a business and training model, including centers of such 
models, for VTC to provide improved services. 
(c) 
Realigning the organizational structure of VTC as well as building 
VTC’s institutional capacity.  
- 5 -
Part 3: Strengthening the Training and Employment Fund
Developing the institutional capacity of the Training and Employment Fund to 
carry out its functions. 
Part 4: Project Management
(a) 
Supporting MoL’s Development Coordination Unit in the coordination 
of Project implementation activities as well as in the monitoring and 
evaluation of Project. 
(b) 
Provision of assistance to MoL’s Departments of Procurement and 
Finance in the implementation of the Project. 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoL, shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Plan. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, MoL and/or MoL’s Development Coordination 
Unit shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan, 
if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially or 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the Project 
objectives.  
2. 
The Borrower shall at all times maintain the Development Coordination Unit of 
MoL with adequate functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank. 
MoL’s Development Coordination Unit shall be responsible for the overall 
coordination and the support to the implementation of the Project, including the 
procurement and financial management processes under the Project and the 
preparation of Project reports. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower, through MoL, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
1. 
The Borrower, through MoL, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished by MoL to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date. 
 
- 7 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower, through MoL, shall maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through MoL, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through MoL, shall have the Financial Statements of the Project 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General 
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
(1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished by MoL to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
- 8 -
Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the Bank’s procurement procedures 
and the following additional procedures:  
(a) Standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used. 
(b) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available to 
prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of bids. 
(c) Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over 
the estimated cost. 
(d) Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
(e) Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, no preference of any 
kind shall be given to national bidders, and having a presence in the 
Borrower’s territory shall not be made a condition for bidding. 
(f) Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be 
stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is required, 
a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be 
given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance i.e. no 
non-registration status should be considered as a non-eligibility-to-bid 
criterion and a one-envelope bid submission system should be employed. 
(g) Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(h) Except for late bids, bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably 
immediately, but no later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and prices for all bids shall be read out at such public 
session and no disqualification shall be made at that stage. 
(i) Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed 
in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified period, 
agreed with the Bank. 
(j) Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
(k) Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When 
two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made 
to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if collusion 
is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the award 
- 9 -
shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and 
(B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be 
invited after receiving the concurrence of the Bank. 
(l) Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial 
period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. Extension of 
bid validity may be sought only under exceptional circumstances. 
(m) Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence 
of the Bank: (A) for the first request for extension if it is longer than 
eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for extensions 
irrespective of the period. 
(n) Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(o) Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(p) All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated 
in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s performance 
security shall apply to a specific contract under which it was furnished. 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following methods, other than 
International Competitive Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, may be 
used for the procurement of goods for those contracts specified in the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping, and (b) Direct Contracting.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which the said procurement methods 
may be used. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for the 
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts specified in the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS); (b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS); (c) Least Cost Selection (LCS); (d) Single 
Source (SSS); and (e) Individual Consultants.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which the said procurement methods may be 
used. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
- 10 -
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
2. 
Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (two 
hundred thousand United Sates dollars) equivalent per contract may be composed 
entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for 
Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods  
1,800,000 
100% of Foreign Expenditures; 
100% of Local Expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 90% of Local 
Expenditures for other items 
procured locally. 
(2) Consultant services and 
 
Training 
4,881,000 
 
90% for firms within territory of 
the Borrower; 95% for services 
of individual consultants within 
territory of the Borrower; and 
100% of foreign expenditures. 
(3) Front-end Fee 
   18,750 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with 
Section 
2.07(b) 
of 
the 
General 
- 11 -
Conditions 
(4) Unallocated 
 
800,250 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
7,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed three hundred thousand 
United States dollars (US$300,000) equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Categories (1) and (2).   
 
2
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; and  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.  
3. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning October 15, 2013  
through October 15, 2027  
 
3.33 % 
On April  15, 2028  
 
3.43% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
- 13 -
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, 
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to 
which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
- 14 -
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Development Coordination Unit” or “DCU” means MoL’s Development 
Coordination Unit, responsible for coordinating the overall implementation of the 
Project, or any successor thereto. 
 
5. 
 “E-TVET Council” means the Borrower’s Employment and Technical 
Vocational Education and Training Council, or any successor thereto, established 
pursuant to Part 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
7. 
 “MoL” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, or any successor thereto. 
8. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 4, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
10. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan prepared 
by MoL and submitted to the Bank on September 30, 2008, setting forth, inter 
alia, detailed principles, processes and procedures for implementing the Project, 
as such plan may be updated from time to time in agreement with Bank. 
- 15 -
11. 
“Training and Employment Fund” means the Training and Employment Fund 
established pursuant to Article 6 of the Borrower’s TVET Council Law 2001, or 
any successor thereto. 
12. 
“TVET Council” means the Borrower’s Employment and Technical Vocational 
Education and Training Council, established under MoL, or any successor 
thereto. 
13. 
“TVET sector” means Technical-Vocational Educational and Training sector of 
the Borrower. 
14. 
“VTC” means the Borrower’s Vocational Training Corporation, or any successor 
thereto.
 
