CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7563 AL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Disaster Risk Mitigation and Adaptation Project) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 2, 2008  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7563 AL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 2, 2008, between ALBANIA (“Borrower”) and the 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter of development policy dated May 
21, 2008 from the Bank describing a program of actions, objectives and policies (the 
Program) designed to strengthen national capacity to plan for and respond to disasters, 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the execution of the 
Program through a series of loans over the period of approximately eight (8) years to be 
utilized by the Bank in implementing the Program; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
first phase of the Program (the Project) described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Association (the Financing Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equal to three million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000) (the Credit); and 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions and in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two million Euro (EUR 2,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
- 2 -
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing Parts 1.2 and 4 of the Project. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out: (A) Parts 1 and 5 of the 
Project through the MOI; (B) Part 3 of the Project through the MOPWTT; and 
- 3 -
(C) Part 4 of the Project through the MOF; and (ii) cause Part 2 of the Project to 
be carried out by the IEWE, all in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
Any provision of the Emergency Decision shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated or repealed, or any law, decree, regulation or other 
similar instrument adopted, which materially and adversely affects the 
business, operations and affairs of the South Eastern Europe Catastrophic 
Risk Insurance Facility. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and 
 
(b) 
the registration process of the CRIF has been undertaken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank and arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank shall have been concluded with a managing company, acceptable 
to the Bank, to manage the CRIF. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
- 4 -
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit”, Nr. 1 
Tirana  
Albania 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(355)-42-228494 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
(1)-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
6.04. 
Unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank: 
 
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association pursuant 
to: (i) Sections 2.02 and 3.02 of the Financing Agreement; and (ii) 
Schedules 1 and 2 to the Financing Agreement, except Section IV of 
Schedule 2, shall be deemed to be taken in the name and on behalf of 
both the Association and the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
all information and documentation furnished by the Borrower to 
the Association pursuant to the provisions, of to any Sections of, 
and Schedules to, the Financing Agreement enumerated in 
paragraph (a) of this Section shall be deemed furnished to both 
the Association and the Bank. 
 
- 5 -
AGREED at Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA 
 
By: /s/ Ridvan Bode 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Camille Nuamah 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen institutional capacities: (i) to reduce 
the Recipient’s vulnerability to the natural and man-made hazards; and (ii) to limit 
human, economic, and financial losses due to these disasters. 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part 1: Disaster Risk Management and Preparedness 
Carrying out of a program to support capacity building for emergency response 
through the provision of the necessary equipment and the strengthening of disaster risk 
mitigation planning, specifically including:
1. 
Strengthening Disaster Risk Mitigation Planning and Emergency Management
(a) 
Carrying out of a review and update of the country’s emergency response 
legislative framework, encompassing revisions to the 2001 Law on Civil Emergency 
Services, review of the draft legislation, development of the underlying regulatory 
framework, and the dissemination of the new proposed law to relevant partners. 
 
(b) 
Development of a National Disaster Risk Management Strategy and 
Investment Program with a view to formulate a prioritized set of key investments in 
mitigation and adaptation. 
 
(c) 
Preparation and implementation of a public awareness and education 
campaign, encompassing: (i) the raising of awareness by developing school curriculum 
on disaster preparedness, publishing educational material, and training teachers on the 
curriculum; and (ii) development of a multi-media public communications strategy using, 
inter alia, radio, television, internet. 
 
2. 
Enhancement of Emergency Response Capacity
(a) 
Carrying out of a formal needs assessment of emergency response 
equipment and, on the basis thereof, provision of equipment for urban search and rescue, 
flood rescue, snow/mountain rescue, personal protective equipment, and a mobile 
operations center. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening of the existing emergency operations centers, including 
provision of equipment for the national operations center and technical assistance for the 
design of three regional operations centers, including the necessary environmental and 
social impacts assessments. 
- 7 -
(c) 
Carrying out of the feasibility studies and designs for the establishment 
of a “112” integrated emergency call system and an emergency communications system, 
particularly a radio communications system. 
 
(d) 
Development of detailed emergency response procedures to enable 
prompt and effective interventions in catastrophic events. 
 
(e) 
Delivery of specialized training for emergency first responders, 
organization and monitoring of exercises, and provision of recommendations on 
corrective actions thereto, including exercises for civil protection, fire brigades and 
medical personnel. 
 
Part 2: Strengthening of Hydro-meteorological Services 
Carrying out of a program to support disaster risk reduction through provision of 
accurate hydro-meteorological forecasts and services tailored to the needs of disaster risk 
managers in weather-sensitive sectors, encompassing: 
 
1. 
Increase Access to Data
Development at the IEWE of computing resources and telecommunications links 
suitable for real-time communication with field stations, modernized higher-resolution 
weather and climate modeling, and management/sharing of large volumes of weather and 
climate data, both within the Borrower’s territory and with partners of the World 
Meteorological Organization, and consisting of: the design and installation of a robust 
intranet to support the forecasting functions of IEWE, design, cabling, data management 
and applications servers, workstations for staff, uninterruptible power supply, upgrade in 
the telecommunications links from field stations to headquarters, equipment for data 
management including scanner, software and workstations for archiving of past data and 
quality checking and archiving of current data, and the development of a dynamic 
website to present and share weather data and forecasts. 
 
2. 
Upgrade of the Weather Forecasting Monitoring Network
Strengthening of the surface monitoring network, including at the IEWE, the 
MOD and the Air Traffic Agency, to refurbish the existing meteorological stations, 
provide automatic meteorological and hydrological monitoring stations, specialized 
stations, an upper-air sounding station, and a satellite downlink station to enable the most 
productive use of satellite data for multiple purposes. 
- 8 -
3. 
Development of the Capacity to Prepare Forecast Products for Disaster 
Management
Strengthening of the forecasting capacity of IEWE with a view to prepare more-
resolved, more-accurate basic forecast products tailored to disaster management, through 
the provision of software, training and computing resources necessary to undertake a 
local area model of weather in the country and, on the basis thereof, to enhance services 
such as severe weather alerts at higher resolution and longer lead time, long-lead-time 
alerts concerning flood conditions and snow cover based on forecasts of precipitation, 
fire weather warnings, road weather alerts, and frost/drought alerts for agriculture.  
 
Part 3: Development of Building Codes
Carrying out of a program to reduce hazard risks through the development of 
improved building codes and mechanisms for introduction of improved standards, and 
including: 
 
1. 
Development of a National Building Code
Carrying out of a review of building code legislation currently under 
consideration, with a focus on applicable earthquake design requirements, including 
assistance for the adoption of the European Union codes in the country. 
 
2. 
Training to Engineers in New Design Standards
Development of training materials to train engineers in the new, revised building 
code, and training of trainers. 
 
3. 
Development of a Mechanism for Licensing of Engineers
Development of a system to certify, license and review licenses for design and 
supervision engineers. 
 
Part 4: Southeast Europe Catastrophic Risk Insurance Facility
1. 
Securing the Recipient’s Membership in the CRIF
Provision of financing for the payment of the Borrower’s membership and 
participation in the CRIF with a view to provide access to affordable and reliable 
catastrophe insurance products which reduce the Borrower’s fiscal exposure to natural 
disasters. 
 
- 9 -
2. 
Establishment of CRIF’s Presence in the Albanian Insurance Market
Carrying out of a program aimed at facilitating the adoption by the Borrower of a 
policy framework conducive to the operation of CRIF in its territory, encompassing the 
enactment of laws and regulations conducive for the operations of the CRIF and 
investments in public education and awareness campaign on the benefits of catastrophe 
insurance. 
 
Part 5: Project Management
Provision of support in Project management, through the financing of selected 
management costs, including consultants’ services for procurement, financial 
management and monitoring and evaluation. 
 
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Ministry of the Interior
The Borrower, though the Ministry of Interior, shall be responsible for leading 
Project implementation as the country’s key entity responsible for disaster management. 
 
2. 
Project Steering Committee
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall, not later than November 1, 2008, 
establish, and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, a Project Steering 
Committee (PSC) under terms of reference and with resources satisfactory to the Bank.  
The PSC shall be responsible for ensuring inter-sectoral coordination, monitoring 
progress in Project implementation, and resolving policy-related issues associated with 
disaster risk management or any delays during Project implementation.  The PSC shall be 
chaired by the Deputy Minister of Interior and its composition shall include the 
representation of the General Director of Civil Emergencies of the MOI, the Director of 
the IEWE, the Head of the Air Force Command Weather Forecast Service, the General 
Director of the Air Traffic Agency, the MOF and MOPWTT, with the General 
Directorate on Civil Emergencies acting as the Secretary and the Department of Strategy 
and Donor Coordination of the Council of Ministers sitting as Observer. 
 
3. 
Project Management Team
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall maintain throughout Project 
implementation, a Project Management Team (PMT) under terms of reference and with 
resources satisfactory to the Bank.  The said Team shall be responsible for managing the 
overall Project in the MOI and for the procurement, financial management and 
monitoring of the entire Project.  Its composition includes staff assigned from within the 
General Directorate of Civil Emergencies, contracted experts on procurement and 
financial management, and one Implementation Team Coordinator from each of the 
IEWE, the MOPWTT, and the MOF, respectively, to coordinate the activities of their 
agencies with the PMT.  
 
4. 
Implementation Team(s)
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall, not later than November 1, 2008, 
establish, and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, an Implementation 
Team within each of the IEWE, the MPWTT, and the MOF, under terms of reference and 
- 11 -
with resources satisfactory to the Bank.  Each Implementation Team shall be responsible 
for contributing to the substantive elements of the implementation of the respective part 
of the Project, formulating terms of reference for the respective activities, participating in 
the evaluation committees, and clearing the contracts for the signature of the Project 
authorizing officer.  Each Implementation Team shall be headed by an Implementation 
Team Coordinator and shall include sector specialists. 
 
5. 
Disaster Risk Mitigation Strategy Working Group
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall, not later than October 1, 2008, establish, 
and thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, a Disaster Risk Mitigation 
Strategy Working Group under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and 
comprising representatives from all ministries concerned with disaster risk mitigation.  
This Working Group shall be vested with the responsibility to prepare the national 
Disaster Risk Mitigation and Adaptation Strategy referred to in paragraph 3 of Part B of 
this Section I. 
 
6. 
Disaster Insurance Working Group
To discharge its membership obligations in the CRIF, not later than thirty (30) 
days after the establishment of the CRIF, the Borrower shall form an inter-ministerial 
working group on disaster insurance consisting of representatives of the MOF, the 
Authority for Supervising Non-Banking Financial Institutions, other relevant government 
agencies and/or other appropriate entities.  This Group shall be headed by a Chairman 
selected from the MOF, who shall also represent the Borrower on the Board of Governors 
of the CRIF. 
 
B. 
Implementation Modalities 
 
1. 
Implementation Covenants
I. 
Part 4.1 of the Project: Bilateral Agreement for Local Product 
Distribution
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall conclude, not later than six (6) months 
after the Effective Date, a bilateral agreement with the CRIF, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, which will enable CRIF to distribute its products through local 
insurance companies as specified by the regulations of the Albanian Insurance 
Commission. 
 
II. 
Disaster Risk Mitigation and Adaptation Strategy
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall prepare, not later than January 31, 2010, a 
draft Disaster Risk Mitigation and Adaptation Strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, which 
prioritizes in a suitable manner disaster risk mitigation actions and investments. 
- 12 -
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the Monitoring and Evaluation indicators.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than August 30, 2012. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through the MOI, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
C. 
Mid-Term Review 
 
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
- 13 -
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than December 31, 2009, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress: (i) achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report; and (ii) on the fulfillment of the actions referred to in the Program 
and the attainment of the milestones to start and carry out the second phase of the 
Program, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, on or about January 31, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Services (Other than Consultants’ Services). 
All goods and 
services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services) 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
- 14 -
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services).  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other 
than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and services (other 
than consultants’ services).  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Shopping 
 
(b) 
Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(b) 
Quality-Based Selection 
 
(c) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(d) 
Least-Cost Selection 
 
(e) 
Single-Source Selection 
 
(f) 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 15 -
Section IV.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(Expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
(1) Goods under Part 1.2 of the 
 
Project 
270,000 
80% 
(2)  Membership Contribution 
 
under Part 4.1 of the Project 
1,330,000 
100% 
(3)  Consultants’ Services under 
 
Part 4.2 of the Project 
400,000 
80% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
2,000,000
For the purposes of this Section, the term “Membership Contribution” means 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower to secure its membership and participation in the 
CRIF. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2012. 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (i) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (ii) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
March 15, 2019 
2.57 % 
September 15, 2019 
2.66 % 
March 15, 2020 
2.75 % 
September 15, 2020 
2.85 % 
March 15, 2021 
2.95 % 
September 15, 2021 
3.05 % 
March 15, 2022 
3.16 % 
September 15, 2022 
3.27 % 
March 15, 2023 
3.38 % 
September 15, 2023 
3.50 % 
March 15, 2024 
3.62 % 
September 15, 2024 
3.75 % 
March 15, 2025 
3.88 % 
September 15, 2025 
4.02 % 
March 15, 2026 
4.16 % 
September 15, 2026 
4.30 % 
March 15, 2027 
4.46 % 
September 15, 2027 
4.61 % 
March 15, 2028 
4.77 % 
September 15, 2028 
4.94 % 
March 15, 2029 
5.11 % 
September 15, 2029 
5.29 % 
March 15, 2030 
5.48 % 
September 15, 2030 
5.67 % 
March 15, 2031 
5.80 % 
- 17 -
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
- 18 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Air Traffic Agency” means the Borrower’s National Air Traffic Agency under 
the MOPWTT (as hereinafter defined). 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Directorate for Civil Emergencies” means the Directorate in charge of disaster 
preparedness and management within the MOI (as hereinafter defined). 
6. 
“Emergency Decision” means the Borrower’s Council of Ministers Decision No. 
664 on “Criteria and Procedures of Proclamation on the Civil Emergency 
Situation” dated December 18, 2002, as amended to the date of this Agreement.  
7. 
“Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for the Project between 
the Borrower and the Association, dated the same date as this Agreement, as such 
financing agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Financing 
Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Financing Agreement.  
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year.  
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
10. 
“Institute of Energy, Water and Environment” or “IEWE” the Borrower’s 
Institute of Energy, Water and Environment, a governmental institution entity 
responsible for services for third parties and the transfer of knowledge and 
technology in energy, water, environment and climatic sectors. 
11. 
“Ministry of Defense” or “MOD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Defense. 
12. 
“Ministry of Education and Science or “MOES” means the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Education and Science. 
13. 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or 
any successor thereto. 
- 19 -
14. 
“Ministry of Interior” or “MOI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of the Interior, 
or any successor thereto. 
15. 
“Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunications” or “MOPWTT” 
means 
the 
Borrower’s 
Ministry 
of 
Public 
Works, 
Transport 
and 
Telecommunications, or any successor thereto. 
16. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed monitoring and 
evaluation indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by 
the Borrower to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and 
the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved.  
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 16, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
19. 
“South Eastern Europe Catastrophic Risk Insurance Facility” or “CRIF” means 
the regional catastrophic risk insurance program owned by the participating 
countries of the Southeast Europe Region which the Borrower will join and 
participate in under Part 4.1 of the Project. 
 
