CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4889-MU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Trade and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 18, 2008 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4889-MU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated March 18, 2008, entered into between THE REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITIUS (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000) 
(“Loan”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
3
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economic 
 
Development. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN 
4247 
(230) 213 6450 
 
Port Louis 
 
EXTERN IW 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
By /s/ Keerteecoomar Ruhee 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Michel Wormser 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
Consolidation of Fiscal Performance and Improving Public Sector Efficiency
1. 
Implementation of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework and preparation of 
an indicative program-based budget for the Borrower’s Fiscal Year 2007/08. 
2. 
Reduction of the Borrower’s primary spending by one-percent of gross domestic 
product for Fiscal Year 2007/08 compared to Fiscal Year 2005/06. 
3. 
Enactment and proclamation of the Public Procurement Act 2006, including the 
appointment of senior officials for the procurement policy office, the central 
procurement board and the independent review panel, as prescribed under the 
Act. 
4. 
(a) 
Submission by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development to 
the Borrower’s cabinet a cabinet paper on the establishment of a 
parastatal reform steering committee satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation by the Borrower’s relevant ministries of the performance of 
selected parastatals (i.e., Central Water Authority, Wastewater 
Management Authority, Central Electricity Board and Sugar Planters 
Mechanical Pool) and establishment by the parastatal reform, sector 
working groups of remedial action plans satisfactory to the Bank to 
address the problems identified.   
Improvement of Trade Competitiveness
5. 
(a) 
Acquisition of additional capacity on the SAFE cable by Mauritius 
Telecom. 
(b)  
Issuance of a decision by the Information and Communications 
Technology Authority (ICTA) on Mauritius Telecom’s application for  
a 20-percent price reduction on ADSL charges. 
(c) 
Initiation of a regulatory review by the Ministry of Information 
Technology and Telecommunications of ICTA’s technical and 
institutional capacity. 
6
Improvement of Investment Climate
6. 
Establishment and operationalization of a new National Pay Council in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Democratization of the Economy through Participation, Social Inclusion and
Sustainability
7. 
Drafting by the Ministry of Education and Human Resources of a national 
education strategy to increase primary, secondary and tertiary output and 
improve the quality of education, including by:  
(a) increasing enrollment at the tertiary level;  
(b) reducing the failure and marginal pass rate of the Certificate of Primary 
Education (CPE), particularly in the Zones d’Education Prioritaires;  
(c) offering a vocational stream to those who fail or marginally pass the CPE; 
(d) upgrading teacher training; and  
(e) implementing a new curriculum with a greater emphasis on languages, 
sciences, mathematics and information and computer technology. 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Single Tranche 
 
29,925,000 
 
Front-end Fee 
 
75,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
30,000,000 
7
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by  
the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable  
to the Bank; and 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount  
of the Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted  
for in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
E. 
Excluded Expenditures.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
F. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule  
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed in USD1)
On each May 15 and November 15 
Beginning November 15, 2013 through May 15, 2023 
 
1,500,000 
1 The figure in this column represents the amount in USD to be repaid, except as provided in Section 3.08 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
9
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“ADSL” means asymmetric digital subscriber line, which is a form of data 
communications technology. 
2. 
“Agricultural Marketing Board” means the board established in 1964 under the 
Mauritius Agricultural Marketing Act of December 13, 1963.  
3. 
“Central Electricity Board” means the board established by the Central 
Electricity Board Act of January 25, 1964. 
4. 
“Central Water Authority” means the authority established under the Central 
Water Authority Act of 1971. 
5. 
“Certificate of Primary Education” means the Borrower’s certificate awarded for 
satisfactory completion of the national examination for primary education. 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national  
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank  
or the Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which  
the Bank or the Association has financed or agreed to finance under 
another loan, credit, or grant; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
10 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
11 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning July 1st and ending 
June 30th.
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
9. 
“ICTA” means Information and Communication Technologies Authority, which 
is the Borrower’s national regulator for the information and communication 
technology sector and postal services. 
10. 
“Mauritius Telecom” means the telecommunications operator and services 
provider registered in Mauritius pursuant to the Companies Act, under 
registration number C6834. 
11. 
“Medium Term Expenditure Framework” means a technique for setting credible 
and enforceable medium term (three year) fiscal targets and aligning the use of 
public resources to the Borrower’s strategic priorities. 
12. 
“Ministry of Education and Human Resources” means the Borrower’s ministry 
that is responsible for the education sector from pre-primary to tertiary levels. 
13. 
“Ministry of Information Technology and Telecommunications” means the 
Borrower’s ministry that is responsible for the information technology and 
telecommunications sector. 
14. 
“National Pay Council” means the council established by the Borrower  
by a decision of the Borrower’s cabinet on May 4, 2007. 
15. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed  
to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated January 14, 2008, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
16. 
“Public Procurement Act” means Act No. 33 of 2006, published in the 
Government Gazette of Mauritius No. 121 of December 30, 2006. 
12 
 
17. 
“SAFE” means the South Africa Far East cable, which is an optical fiber 
submarine communications cable linking South Africa to the Far East.  
18. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
19. 
“Sugar Planters Mechanical Pool Corporation” means the parastatal body 
established under the Sugar Planters Mechanical Pool Corporation Act of 
October 21, 1974. 
20. 
“Wastewater Management Authority” means the parastatal body established 
under the Wastewater Management Authority Act of 2001. 
21. 
“Zones d’Education Prioritaires” means the Borrower’s primary schools that 
have less than forty-percent pass rate at the Certificate of Primary Education 
level. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through  
October 17, 2007) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
13 
 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified  
or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read  
as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.” All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
