CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7552-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(National Roads Improvement and Management Program Phase II) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 24, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 24, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
November 29, 1999, describing a program designed to establish management systems 
that would ensure the upgrading and preservation of the national roads system in an 
environmentally, socially and financially sustainable fashion (the Program) and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank assist in the financing of the 
Program, through a series of loans, over a period of approximately nine and one-half  
(9-1/2) years;   
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank entered into a Loan Agreement dated  
April 10, 2000 to assist in financing phase I of the National Roads Improvement and 
Management Project under the Program;   
 
 
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms 
the second phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;  
 
(E) 
the Borrower is committed to allocate an amount equivalent to ten  
million five hundred thousand United States Dollars ($10,500,000), out of two existing 
grant facilities provided by the Government of Australia to the Borrower, under a 
Subsidiary Arrangement dated April 2005 for the Philippines-Australia Partnership for 
Economic Governance Reforms and a Subsidiary Arrangement dated August 20, 2004 for 
the Philippines-Australia Human Resource Development Facility, for financing technical 
assistance activities under Parts B.1(b), B.2(a), B.2(b) and B.2(d) of the Project; and    
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
2
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount of two hundred and thirty two million 
United States Dollars ($232,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
3
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall through DPWH carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
4
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower, through DPWH, has established the Program Steering 
Committee and the Program Management Office in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1(a) under Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;  
 
(b) 
an independent audit firm with qualifications and under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank has been engaged to assist the Borrower 
in strengthening DPWH’s internal audit capacity;  
(c) 
the Borrower, through DPWH, has appointed a financial management 
manager, supported by financial management staff in adequate numbers, 
each with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for the financial management  
of the Project; and 
(d) 
the Borrower, through DPWH, has adopted the Project Implementation 
Plan, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 
Roxas Blvd. 
 
Manila, Philippines 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN 
 
 
 
 
(63-2) 526-9990 
5
Manila  
 
 
 
 
(63-2) 523-9216 
6
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By 
/s/ Margarito B. Teves 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Bert Hofman 
 
Authorized Representative 
7
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the operation, 
organizational effectiveness, and fiduciary control in the management and financing of 
the national road system to enhance road user satisfaction in the Project area and to 
improve efficiency in the use of financial resources in the road sector. 
 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part A: National Road Improvement and Asset Preservation
1. 
Improving national roads, including: roads upgrading, rehabilitation, and 
widening; bridge replacement; and landslide area rehabilitation; totaling about 
450 kilometers (km) of roads and about 1,000 meters (m) of bridges in the 
arterial national road network. 
 
2. 
Preserving assets in the national road network, including: (a) comprehensive 
maintenance of about 1,000 km of the arterial national road network under long-
term performance-based contracts;  and (b) preventive maintenance of about 
1,200 km of the national road network. 
 
Part B: Institutional and Capacity Development
1. 
Institutionalizing and expanding the application of the technical and business 
processes developed and piloted under the Program phase I and other measures 
for improving the performance of DPWH in road management through provision 
of technical assistance, training and workshops, including: (a) planning, 
procurement, communications, project implementation, monitoring, and research; 
and (b) financial management, internal controls, and internal audit.   
 
2. 
Improving the operational effectiveness and institutional integrity in DPWH 
through provision of technical assistance, training and workshops, including:                  
(a) modernizing the organizational structure of DPWH to improve DPWH’s 
effectiveness; (b) developing a multi-stakeholder partnership involving road 
users and non-governmental organizations for improving transparency and 
monitoring of the road sector performance; (c) piloting commercialization of 
road management and public works service delivery at the district level; and (d) 
strengthening the fiduciary oversight of the Project implementation.   
 
3. 
Supporting road sector reforms through provision of technical assistance, training 
and workshops, including: (a) strengthening the operations of the Road Board;                    
8
(b) updating the mandates of the Road Board; (c) reviewing road cost recovery 
mechanisms; and (d) assessing the options for restructuring the road sector in the 
areas of management and service delivery. 
 
9
SCHEDUELE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
Project Management  
 
1. 
Throughout the period of implementation of the Project, with compositions, 
terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
establish and maintain: (i) a Program Steering Committee to be 
responsible for the overall Project management, coordination, 
monitoring, and evaluation of the Project; and (ii) a Program 
Management Office to be responsible for implementing Parts A.1, A.2, 
B.1, and B.2 of the Project; and   
 
(b) 
maintain the Road Board Secretariat to be responsible for implementing 
Part B.3 of the Project.  
 
Project Implementation 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with Borrower’s Republic Act 8794, 
its implementing rules and regulations, and the Project Implementation 
Plan.  The Project Implementation Plan shall set forth, inter alia, the 
descriptions of: (i) the Project implementation arrangements; (ii) 
financial management, disbursement and internal control procedures 
consistent with the provisions of Section II.B of this Schedule; (iii) 
procurement procedures consistent with the provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule; (iv) monitoring and evaluation procedures; (v) Integrity 
Strengthening Action Plan; and (vi) Resettlement Action Plans, Land 
Acquisition, Resettlement, Rehabilitation Policy Framework, Indigenous 
Peoples Policy Framework, Environment Management Systems Policy 
Framework and Environmental Management plans; and     
(b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate, suspend, 
or waive any provision of the Borrower’s Republic Act 8794, its 
implementing rules and regulations and the Project Implementation Plan 
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.  In case of any 
conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the 
10 
 
Project Implementation Plan, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
 
3. 
In carrying out Part B.1(b) of the Project, the Borrower, through DPWH shall:  
 
(a)  
with the assistance of the independent audit firm engaged in accordance 
with Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement: (i) complete a preliminary 
baseline assessment of DPWH’s internal control system not later than 
two (2) months after the engagement of such firm; and (ii) by June 30 
and December 31 each year, commencing December 31, 2008, and 
ending June 30, 2010, undertake semi-annual internal audits for DPWH’s 
operations and Project accounts; and 
 
(b)  
thereafter undertake semi-annual internal audits for DPWH’s operations 
and Project accounts for the duration of the Project. 
 
4. 
In carrying out Part B.2(d) of the Project, the Borrower, through DPWH, shall: 
(i) take all necessary measures, including ensuring access to all relevant 
information, to facilitate the work of  a consulting firm to be engaged by the Co-
financer to enable it to provide integrity support services for DPWH; and (ii) act 
promptly upon the findings and recommendations of the consulting firm resulting 
from its work in the areas of: technical audits on Project expenditures and 
implementation of Project activities; independent evaluation of the procurement 
activities under the Project; and monitoring implementation of the Integrity 
Strengthening Action Plan.  
 
5. 
In carrying out Part B.2(a) of the Project, the Borrower through DPWH shall: (i) 
with assistance of a consulting firm to be engaged by the Co-financier, 
implement its Rationalization Plan after approval by DBM and in accordance 
with the Executive Order No. 366 issued by the Office of the President of the 
Borrower; and (ii) in the event that the Rationalization Plan is not put into effect, 
develop a plan to enhance effectiveness of its operations and service delivery.    
 
6. 
The Borrower through DPWH shall: (i) provide on a timely basis such 
information to the Road Watch as it considers necessary for it to prepare road 
sector report cards every two (2) years; and (ii) post such report cards on its 
website by November 30, 2009 and biannually on November 30 thereafter.   The 
said road sector report cards should include, but need not be limited to, data on 
asset stock, road conditions, road utilization, traffic safety, natural hazards, 
DPWH’s performance, road user satisfaction, road expenditures and efficient use 
of financial resources.    
 
7. 
For access by the Road Partners and the public in general, within one (1) month 
of approval of DPWH’s budget, starting FY 2008 and annually thereafter, the 
11 
 
Borrower through DPWH shall publish a business plan comprising of its 
proposed annual program (including budgets and expected outputs) for next year 
and the expenditure incurred and outputs delivered in the previous year, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.    
 
8. 
By April 30 each year, starting April 30, 2009, the Borrower through DPWH 
shall furnish to the Road Partners a road assets preservation plan for the national 
road networks covering routine and preventive maintenance and rehabilitation 
works.  The said plan should include maintenance outputs from the previous 
year; the approved maintenance and rehabilitation program (including budget 
allocation and outputs) for the current year; and the proposed maintenance and 
rehabilitation program for the next year (including budget allocation and 
expected outputs). 
 
9. 
For carrying out Part B.2(c) of the Project, the Borrower through DPWH shall: 
(i) by March 31, 2009, develop a framework including design and scope, 
acceptable to the Bank for piloting delivery of road management services on a 
commercial basis by DPWH’s district engineering offices; and (ii) by September 
30, 2009, adopt and thereafter implement a time-bound action plan for piloting 
delivery of road management services on a commercial basis by DPWH’s district 
engineering offices, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
10. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary and required measures to ensure that 
amendments to the Regulations for Republic Act 8794 in respect of updating the 
operations and responsibilities of the Road Board, reflecting recommendations 
and comments from road sector experts and the Road Partners, will be approved 
no later than September 30, 2009 by DPWH and the Department of 
Transportation and Communications.  
 
11. 
The Borrower through DPWH shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with 
the Integrity Strengthening Action Plan and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
and (ii) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it and the Road 
Partners to monitor the implementation of said plan on an ongoing basis and to 
evaluate said implementation and the achievement of said plan’s objectives by 
June 30 and December 31 of each year, starting December 31, 2008, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank. 
 
12. 
The Borrower through DPWH shall: (i) complete the implementation of 
recommendations arising from its 2006 external audit report in accordance with a 
time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) for the duration of the 
Project, within twelve (12) months from issuance of subsequent external audit 
reports, complete implementation of recommendations, if any, arising from such 
subsequent external audits, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.   
12 
 
13. 
By March 31 of each year, the Borrower through DOF shall arrange a meeting 
with representatives from DBM, DOF, NEDA, DPWH, the Road Board, the 
Bank, the Co-financier, and the Road Watch, among others, to review progress 
on policy aspects and development objectives of the Program.  
Environmental Protection, Resettlement and Indigenous Peoples 
14. 
The Borrower through DPWH shall: 
(a) 
implement the Environmental Management Plans and the Social and 
Environment Management Systems Policy Framework, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with sound environmental practices and standards;  
(b) 
provide to the Bank for its prior approval any revision proposed to be 
introduced into said Environmental Management Plans and the Social 
and Environment Management Systems Policy Framework in order to 
achieve their objectives, and thereafter only introduce such revision into 
said Environmental Management Plans and the Social and Environment 
Management Systems Policy Framework as shall have been agreed with 
the Bank; and 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of said Environmental Management Plans and the Social 
and Environment Management Systems Policy Framework and the 
achievement of their objectives. 
15. 
The Borrower through DPWH shall: 
 
(a) 
implement the Resettlement Action Plans and the Land Acquisition, 
Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy Framework in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
wherever implementation of the Project or any part thereof, would give 
rise to Displaced Persons, prepare and provide to the Bank for its 
approval a resettlement plan prepared in accordance with the principles 
and procedures set forth in said Framework and, thereafter, implement in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank such resettlement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank;  
(c) 
provide to the Bank for its approval any revision proposed to be 
introduced into said Framework or any of said resettlement plans in order 
to achieve their objectives, and thereafter only introduce such revision 
13 
 
into said Framework or said resettlement plans as shall have been agreed 
with the Bank; and 
(d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of said Framework and said resettlement plans, and the 
achievement of their objectives. 
16. 
The Borrower through DPWH shall: 
 
(a) 
implement the Indigenous Peoples Action Plan and the Indigenous 
Peoples Policy Framework in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, 
designed to provide meaningful consultation with, and the informed 
participation of, Indigenous Peoples within the Project area, and to 
ensure that benefits under the Project are socially and culturally 
acceptable to such groups;  
 
(b) 
whenever implementation of the Project or any part thereof would take 
place in areas where an Indigenous Peoples community reside, prior to 
such implementation, prepare and provide to the Bank for its approval an 
Indigenous Peoples plan prepared in accordance with the principles and 
procedures set forth in said Framework and with the full participation of 
such Indigenous Peoples community, designed to ensure that Project 
activities adequately address the needs, cultural practices and preferences 
of such community; and, thereafter, implement in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank, such Indigenous Peoples plan as shall have been approved 
by the Bank; 
(c) 
provide to the Bank for its approval any proposed revision of said 
Framework or any of said Indigenous Peoples plans, and thereafter only 
introduce such revision into said Framework or said plans as shall have 
been agreed with the Bank; and 
(d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of said Framework and said Indigenous Peoples plans, 
and the achievement of their objectives. 
Anti-Corruption 
17. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
14 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex to this Schedule.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
2.  
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A.1 of this Section II above, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2009, a mid-term evaluation report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 2, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one 
(1) month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial 
15 
 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal 
year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  Bidding for ICB 
contracts will only commence after August 1, 2008, or such other date as the 
Bank may inform the Borrower.     
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
16 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)   
National Competitive Bidding (NCB), subject to the following provisions: 
 
1. 
Eligibility screening shall not be applied.  However, bids that do not 
contain any of the following documents will not pass the 
documentary compliance check: (a) evidence of the required 
financial, technical or production capability; (b) audited financial 
statements; (c) credit line, or cash deposit certificate; (d) bid 
security; and (e) authority of the bid signatory.   
 
2. 
In the case of prequalification, if any bidder is denied access to the 
bidding process for reasons unrelated to its financial and technical 
qualifications to perform the contract, prior concurrence of the 
Bank shall be sought.  
 
3. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with prior concurrence of 
the Bank in advance of bidding.  However, the Approved Budget 
Estimate may be disclosed in the advertisement or in the bidding 
documents.  
 
4. 
Domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the 
evaluation of bids, and other preferences in effect in the Philippines 
will not be used except with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
5. 
Suppliers and contractors will not be required to purchase only local 
goods or supplies or materials.  
 
6. 
In case of contracts for prior review, modifications exceeding 
fifteen percent (15%) of contract amount and material changes in 
the conditions during implementation require prior Bank 
concurrence.   
 
7. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if 
interested, without first being required to associate with, or enter 
into joint venture with, local firms.  Moreover, foreign bidders shall 
be allowed to bid, even without registration, licensing, and other 
government authorizations, leaving these requirements for after 
award and before signing of contract.   
 
8. 
For works contract, the experience qualification requirement shall 
be: (a) at least one (1) previous contract at eighty percent (80%) of 
the estimated cost of the contract being procured; and (b) an annual 
turnover from all works averaged over the last  three (3) years equal 
17 
 
to one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the contract 
being procured.  
(b) 
Shopping  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely of national consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  
Selection based on the Consultants Qualifications 
(c)  
Fixed Budget Selection  
(d)  
Least Cost Selection 
(e)  
Single Source Selection  
(f)  
Individual Consultants  
(g)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:   
 
(a) 
all contracts for goods and civil works to be procured based on ICB, 
regardless of their contract value;  
 
(b) 
the first contract for goods to be procured based on NCB or Shopping, 
regardless of its contract value; 
 
18 
 
(c) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more;  
 
(d) 
all civil works contracts to be procured based on NCB for bridge 
replacement work under Part A.1 of the Project, regardless of their 
contract value;  
 
(e) 
the first contract for consultants’ services to be procured under any of the 
methods of procurement of consultants’ services, regardless of its 
contract value; 
 
(f)  
each contract for consultants’ services to be provided by a firm estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more;  
 
(g) 
each contract for consultants services to be provided by an individual 
consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and  
 
(h) 
all contracts for consultants’ services procured on Single Source 
Selection basis and Sole-Source Selection basis, regardless of their 
contract value.   
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
19 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1)  Goods, consultants’ service (except 
for consultants’ services under Parts 
B.1(b), B.2(a), B.2(b) and B.2(d) of 
the Project), training, and 
workshops  
 
43,420,000     
 
100% 
 
(2)  Civil Works   
 
(a) under Part A.1 of the Project 
 
(b)  under Part A.2(a) of the Project  
(c)  under Part A.2(b) of the Project 
 
(i)  in respect of FY08’s 
preventive maintenance 
program 
 
(ii) in respect of FY09’s 
preventive maintenance 
program 
 
(iii)in respect of FY10’s 
preventive maintenance 
program 
 
(iv) in 
respect 
of 
FY11’s 
preventive 
maintenance 
program 
 
103,000,000 
 53,000,000 
 
8,000,000 
 
8,000,000 
 
8,000,000 
 
8,000,000 
 
50% 
36% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
0
Amount due under  
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
580,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
232,000,000 
 
20 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after July 1, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) above;   
 
(b) 
payments under Category 2(c)(i) set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of 
this Section IV, until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence from 
the Borrower showing that: (i) the Road Board has met Conditions 1 and 
2 with respect to the Borrower’s FY 2008 preventive maintenance 
program to be financed by the SRSF funds allocated to the Project; and 
(ii) DPWH has met Condition 3 with respect to at least sixty percent 
(60%) of its district and regional offices that have received funding from 
the SRSF for roads preventive maintenance under the Project, all in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
for payments under Category 2(c)(ii) in the table in paragraph 2 of this 
Section IV, until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence from the 
Borrower showing that: (i) Road Board has met Conditions 1 and 2 with 
respect to the Borrower’s FY 2009 national preventive maintenance 
program to be financed by the SRSF; and (ii) DPWH has met Condition 
3 with respect to at least sixty percent (60%) of its district and regional 
offices that have received funding from the SRSF for preventive 
maintenance, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(d) 
for payments under Category 2(c)(iii) in the table in paragraph 2 of this 
Section IV, until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence from the 
Borrower showing that: (i) Road Board has met Conditions 1 and 2 with 
respect to the Borrower’s FY 2010 national preventive maintenance 
program to be financed by the SRSF; and (ii) DPWH has met Condition 
3 with respect to eighty percent (80%) of its district and regional offices 
that have received funding from the SRSF for preventive maintenance, 
all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(e) 
for payments under Category 2(c)(iv) in the table in paragraph 2 of this 
Section IV, until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence from the 
Borrower showing that: (i) Road Board has met Conditions 1 and 2 with 
respect to the Borrower’s FY 2011 national preventive maintenance 
program to be financed by the SRSF; and (ii) DPWH has met Condition 
3 with respect to ninety percent (90%) of its district and regional offices 
21 
 
that have received funding from the SRSF for preventive maintenance, 
all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
For the purpose of paragraph 1 above:   
 
(a) 
the term “Condition 1” means the Road Board has approved a work 
program for preventive maintenance of the national roads for FY 2008, FY 2009, 
FY 2010, FY 2011, respectively, and has allocated sufficient funds therefor, in 
each case, based on a program developed and prioritized by DPWH using its 
planning systems and survey information;   
 
(b) 
the term “Condition 2” means the Road Board Secretariat has carried out 
its operations in accordance with the Road Board Operations Manual, and in 
compliance with Republic Act 8794 and its implementing rules and regulations; 
 
(c) 
the term “Condition 3” means the following operating procedures have 
been fully complied with:  
 
(i) 
information with respect to funds from the SRSF has been 
disclosed on the DPWH’s website and on the Philippines 
Government Electronic Procurement System and updated at 
least quarterly; allocation and expenditures of motor vehicle 
user charge funds; information relating to the bidding, award 
and execution of all contracts for the preventive maintenance 
program;    
 
(ii) 
contracts for the preventive maintenance program to be 
financed by the funds from the SRSF have been procured in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to foreign assisted 
projects set forth in the Borrower’s Generic Procurement 
Manual as used together with harmonized Philippines 
Bidding Documents; and 
 
(iii) 
all funds from the SRSF for preventive road maintenance and 
general road maintenance have been accounted for through 
DPWH e-NGAS or NGAS accounting system. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
22 
 
Annex to Schedule 2  
 
Project Performance Indicators  
 
Project Objective 
Project Outcome Indicators 
Use of Project 
Outcome Information
Improved operation, 
organizational 
effectiveness and 
fiduciary control in the 
management and 
financing of the national 
road system, with 
resulting improvements 
to road user satisfaction 
in the project areas and 
efficiency in the use of 
financial resources. 
Overall Program impact will be assessed 
on: 
(a) Administrative efficiency - Project 
delivery time reduced 
(b) Sustainability of financing for 
national road system asset 
management - Increased cost 
recovery from road users 
(c) Value for money – Medium-term 
average cost of preserving national 
paved roads reduced  
(d) Road user satisfaction with the 
national road system 
 
Long term impact 
assessment to assess 
measures of road 
transport efficiency and 
poverty reduction 
overall, and particularly 
in high impact regions1
Intermediate 
Outcomes 
Intermediate Outcome 
Indicators 
Use of Intermediate 
Outcome 
Monitoring 
Part  A1
National roads are 
upgraded to paved roads 
at acceptable standards 
 
By December 2011, for the national road 
system (NRS):
(a) At least 140 km added by the Project 
to NRS paved road length 
DPWH monitoring and 
reports on completion 
progress of NRS 
upgrading programs – to 
Congress and Road 
Partners 
Part  A2
National arterial paved 
roads are maintained in 
good condition 
 
By December 2011, for the national 
road system (NRS):  
At least 75 percent of NRS paved length 
in fair condition or better; and  
(a) At least 1,000 km committed 
under preventive maintenance 
annually 
Annual statistics and 
periodic sector report to 
stakeholders 
Road Board and BOM 
for adjustment of budgets 
and programs to achieve 
NRS targets 
Part B1
1
It is suggested that longer term impact assessment include analysis of (1) Regional Economic growth –
especially in the Luzon, Mindoro, Panay, Negros, and Mindanao regions, and (2) Poverty reduction in one or 
more of these high impact regions. 
23 
 
Improved asset 
management and 
stewardship of the NRS 
by DPWH 
 
(a) At least 80 percent of the annual road 
program of DPWH is evaluated by 
technical and economic criteria 
through the use of DPWH planning 
applications by 2011 
(b) Procurement processing standards 
achieved in 80% of cases by 2010:  
NCB works/goods within 6 months. 
(c) Financial audits timely and adverse 
opinions reduced by 50% by 2010 
(d) Cost and time over-runs reduced to 
less than 30% of contract terms in 
70% of Project works by 2010 
(e)  Road, bridge and traffic data in RBIA 
kept current on at least 90% paved NRS 
network through 2011 
Assess extent of and 
satisfaction with uptake 
of Road Information and 
Management Support 
System (RIMSS) 
business processes, and 
adjustment of 
implementation plan and 
arrangements to achieve 
Program results 
• Annual review of 
DWPH institutional 
reform progress. 
• Periodic sector report 
card to stakeholders. 
• Semi-annual Project 
progress reports 
 
Part B2
Streamlined and effective 
corporate structure and 
processes in place to 
improve service delivery, 
accountability and 
integrity  
 
(a) Functional and structural 
reorganization of DPWH operational 
by June 2010 
(b) Improved compliance with document 
processing time standards  
(c) Road user appreciation of DPWH 
performance improved by at least 10 
percent by 2011 
(d) Average margin of bid award over 
official estimate less than 10% by 
June 2010 
(e)  Independent  integrity rating of 
DPWH improved by 10 percent by 2011 
 
Assess progress on 
improving organizational 
effectiveness, and 
identify adjustments, 
through: 
• Annual review of 
DWPH institutional 
reform progress. 
• Periodic sector report 
card to stakeholders. 
• Semi-annual Project 
progress reports 
 
Part B3
Road Funds performance 
improved; and strategic 
sector reform plan is 
developed and adopted 
ready for implementation 
under Program Phase III 
 
(a) Updated IRR and Operating 
Procedures Manual of Road Board 
adopted by June 2009 
(b) Expanded revenue base for Road 
Funds adopted by December 2009 
(c) Road sector reform plan and new road 
management model adopted by Road 
Board and DPWH  by June 2011 
 
Assess progress on sector 
and institutional reform, 
and facilitate legislative 
approval, through: 
• Annual review of 
DWPH institutional 
reform progress with 
DOF, DBM, and 
NEDA 
 
24 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each November 15 and May 15 
 
beginning May 15, 2018  
 
through May 15, 2032 
 
3.33% 
On November 15, 2032 
3.43% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
25 
 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
26 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“Co-financier” means the Government of Australia, referred to in paragraph 15 
of the Appendix to the General Conditions. 
 
(d) 
“Co-financing” means an amount of US$10,500,000 equivalent, out of two 
existing grant facilities provided by the Co-financier to the Borrower, for co-
financing Parts B.1(b), B.2(a), B.2(b) and B.2(d) of the Project. 
 
(e) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
(f) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, the plural thereof. 
 
(g) 
“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget and Management, or any 
successor thereto.  
 
27 
 
(h) 
“DPWH” means the Borrower’s Department of Public Works and 
Highways, or any successor thereto.   
(i) 
“DOF” means the Borrower’s Department of Finance and any successor thereto.  
(j) 
“Environmental Management Plans” means, collectively, Environmental 
Management Plan dated June 2, 2002, prepared for Surigao-Davao coastal road 
(Bacuag-Gigaguit-Claver section road improvement) under Part A of the Project; 
Environmental Management Plan dated June 2, 2002 prepared for Surigao-Davao 
coastal road (Manay-Tarragona-Mati section road improvement) under Part A of 
the Project; Environmental Management Plan dated December 5, 2000, prepared 
for Marcos Highway-Manila road improvement under Part A of the Project; 
Environmental Management Plan dated May 17, 2007, prepared for landslide risk 
mitigation Mindanao road improvement under Part A of the Project; 
Environmental Management Plan dated May 22, 2007, prepared for North Luzon 
(Manila North Road: Monumento-Agoo/Aringay Bdy) long-term maintenance 
work under Part A of the Project; Environmental Management Plan dated  
May 22, 2007 prepared for South Luzon (Pagsanjan-Lucena, Tiaong-Lucena Jct, 
Pagbilao-Camarines Norte, Lucena Diversion) long-term maintenance works 
under Part A of the Project; Environmental Management Plan dated  
May 22, 2007 prepared for Mindanao Island (DavaoCity-Digos Road) long-term 
maintenance work under Part A of the Project; Environmental Management Plan 
dated May 22, 2007 prepared for Mindanao Island (Tagum-Mati Road) long-term 
maintenance work under Part A of the Project; as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said 
plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
(k) 
“Environmental Management Systems Policy Framework” means the guidelines 
included in the Borrower’s Social and Environmental Management Systems 
Operational Manual dated February 19, 2007, which set forth the rules and 
procedures for the carrying out the environmental assessments and preparing 
environmental management plans for the Project to be implemented under the 
Project during the period of the Project implementation, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.  
(l) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year starting from January 1 and ending on 
December 31. 
 
(m) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
(n) 
“Generic Procurement Manuals” means the manuals, adopted and approved by 
the Borrower’s Government Procurement Policy Board, through Resolution 
28 
 
No.013-2006 for the conduct of government agencies’ procurement operations 
effective January 2007.   
(o) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and cultural 
identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following 
characteristics: (i) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural 
resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and identification by others as 
members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, often different 
from Filipino, the Recipient’s national language; (iv) presence of customary 
social and political institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented 
production. 
(p) 
“Indigenous Peoples Action Plan” means the plan, dated May 24, 2007, prepared 
for the Davao-Calinan-Buda-Maramag-Kibawe-Kabacan road in accordance with 
the policies and procedures set forth in the Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework 
and referred to in paragraph 16 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; said 
plan setting forth: (i) measures or actions to be undertaken by the Borrower to 
ensure meaningful consultation with and informed participation of Indigenous 
Peoples communities in the Project activities and Project benefits for said 
communities which are socially and culturally acceptable to them; (ii) measures 
to reduce, mitigate and offset adverse impacts of the implementation of the 
Project; and (iii) arrangements to monitor and evaluate the implementation of 
said plan, as such plan may be amended from time to time with prior agreement 
of the Bank.   
(q) 
“Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework” means the framework, a distinct section 
of the Land Acquisition, Resettlement, Rehabilitation and Indigenous Peoples 
Policy Framework, dated February 16, 2007, adopted by the Borrower, providing 
procedures, rules, and guidelines for: (i) the informed involvement of Indigenous 
Peoples, through a process of free, prior, and informed consultation, in the design 
and implementation of the Project in locations in which such people reside or 
which they use for their livelihood; and (ii) designing and implementing 
measures to provide benefits which are socially and culturally acceptable to 
them, and reduce, mitigate and offset adverse impacts of the Project, as such 
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Bank. 
(r) 
“Integrity Strengthening Action Plan” means a stand-alone chapter of the Project 
Implementation Plan (defined hereinafter), giving details of a program of actions, 
measures and policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption under 
the Project. 
29 
 
(s) 
“Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation Policy Framework” means 
the framework, a distinct section of the Land Acquisition, Resettlement, 
Rehabilitation 
and 
Indigenous 
Peoples 
Policy 
Framework, 
dated  
February 16, 2007, adopted by the Borrower, providing procedures, rules, and 
guidelines for: (i) the involuntary taking of land and other assets from Displaced 
Persons; (ii) resettlement and rehabilitation of, and compensation to, Displaced 
Persons; and (iii) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with such framework, as such framework may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
(t) 
“NEDA” means the Borrower’s National Economic and Development Authority, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
(u) 
“Philippines Bidding Document” means the bidding document for procurement 
of works, dated May 2005 (second edition), as harmonized with Asian 
Development Bank, Japan Bank for International Cooperation, and the Bank. 
 
(v) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such plan may be revised from time 
to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
(w) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
(x) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(y) 
“Program” means the Borrower’s National Road Improvement and Management 
Program as set out in the letter from the Borrower referred to in paragraph (A) of 
the Preamble to this Agreement.  
 
(z) 
“Program Management Office” means the office referred to in paragraph 1(a)(ii) 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(aa) 
“Program Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 
1(a)(i) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(bb) 
“Rationalization Plan” means the plan prepared by DPWH for institutional 
restructuring in accordance with the Executive order No.366 issued by the Office 
of the President of the Borrower. 
 
30 
 
(cc) 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the Resettlement Action Plan 
dated June 2, 2002, prepared for  Surigao-Davao coastal road (Bacuag-Gigaguit-
Claver section) under Part A.1 of the Project; the Resettlement Action Plan dated 
July 31, 2002, prepared for Surigao-Davao coastal road (Manay-Tarragona-Mati 
section) under Part A.1 of the Project; the Resettlement Action Plan dated May 
15, 2007, prepared for Digos-General Santos Road under Part A.1 of the Project; 
and the Resettlement Action Plan dated May 15, 2007 prepared for Davao-
Calinan-Buda-Maramag-Kibawe-Kabacan road under Part A.1 of the Project, 
which said plans set out the principles and procedures governing the acquisition 
of land and other assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of 
Displaced Persons on account of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement 
Action Plan” means, individually, either of the Resettlement Action Plans.  
 
(dd) 
“Road Board” means the entity established by the Borrower under Republic Act 
8794 to exercise oversight of the revenues collected from motor vehicle user 
charges which are held in special trust accounts in the national treasury and to 
implement the prudent and efficient management and utilization of the revenues 
on the national road system. 
 
(ee) 
“Road Board Operations Manual” means the manual dated September 1, 2001, 
adopted by DPWH, which sets out policy and procedures to provide 
administrative guidance relating to the operation and management of the SRSF 
and other trust accounts and the development and management of work programs 
to be financed by the SRSF and other trust accounts, as said manual may be 
amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
(ff) 
“Road Board Secretariat” means the Secretariat established by the Implementing 
Rules and Regulations for Republic Act No.8794 and referred to in  
paragraph 1(b) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(gg) 
“Road Watch” means the entity to be established to represent a partnership of 
road users and non-governmental organizations for interaction with the 
Borrower’s relevant agencies to monitor and help improve the performance of 
the road sector (including DPWH), and to support road sector reforms. 
 
(hh) 
“Road Partners” means the stakeholders in the Borrower’s road sector, including 
the relevant government agencies, non-governmental organizations, and 
development assistance agencies.  
 
(ii) 
“SRSF” means Special Road Support Fund established as a special trust account 
under the national treasury by Republic Act No.8794 for the purpose of financing 
maintenance 
and 
improvement 
of 
national 
roads.
31 
 
