CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7443-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Sierra Rural Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 26, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7443-PE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 26, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Borrower’s Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s 
Director General de la Direccion Nacional del Endeudamiento Publico of MEF, 
and any person whom he or she shall designate in writing to the Bank. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
2
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower, through MARENASS, shall carry out the Project all in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
3
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, an action has been 
taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action under the Project in a 
manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement 
of the objective of the Project or the execution capacity of MARENASS or any 
successor entity thereof. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
 
the MARENASS Regulation has been duly updated by all necessary 
 
governmental and corporate action to make it consistent with MARENASS’ role 
 
in the Project. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on October 24, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance or its 
Director of Public Indebtedness. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Jr. Junín 319 
 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
(511) 4154264 
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Luis Carranza Ugarte 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the project is to assist the Borrower in improving the assets and 
economic conditions of rural families in selected areas of the Borrower’s Apurímac, 
Ayacucho, Huancavelica, Junin, Huánuco, and Pasco regions, and strengthen government 
capacity to implement an integrated Sierra development strategy. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Promotion of Rural Businesses through Subprojects
(a) 
Design and implementation of a communication and dissemination strategy of 
information on Rural Business’ Subprojects amongst rural producers and 
stakeholders. 
 
(b) 
(i) Carrying out of pre-investment studies; and (ii) provision of pre-investment 
financing and technical assistance to support the creation of viable Rural 
Business’ Subproject proposals.  
 
(c) 
Co-financing the carrying out of Rural Business’ Subprojects. 
 
Part 2: Community Development through Subprojects
(a) 
Promotion and dissemination of information on Community Development 
Subprojects amongst rural communities and stakeholders in selected areas of the 
Borrower’s territory with limited access to markets. 
 
(b) 
(i) Carrying out of pre-investment studies; and (ii) provision of pre-investment 
financing and technical assistance to support the design and preparation of viable 
Community Development Subproject proposals. 
 
(c) 
Co-financing the carrying out of Community Development Subprojects. 
 
Part 3: Sierra Coordination, Project Management and Monitoring
(a) 
Establishment and institutional strengthening of the SDU to promote economic 
development in the rural Sierra through, inter alia, the provision of technical 
assistance and training, the carrying out of workshops and technical studies, as well 
as the design and implementation of a development program and an integral rural 
strategy for the Sierra. 
 
(b) 
Establish, at the offices of MARENASS, an adequately functioning monitoring 
and evaluation (M&E) system to track progress of the Project.  
6
(c) 
Support MARENASS in its day-to-day management of the Project, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles and other goods required to carry out Project activities. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, 
 
until completion of the Project, a unit within MINAG to be responsible for the 
 
overall coordination and management of the Project (MARENASS), such unit to 
 
maintain adequate staffing, functions and responsibilities in accordance with the 
 
Operational Manual, including, inter alia, the following responsibilities: 
(a) 
overall responsibility for implementing, planning, coordinating and 
monitoring of Project activities, both at the Borrower’s national and 
regional level; 
(b) 
orientation and supervision of the work of all the Project staff at the 
national and regional levels;  
(c) 
carrying out of the Project’s dissemination and communication strategy; 
 
(d) 
revision and updating of the Project’s Operational Manual; 
 
(e) 
preparation of the Project progress reports; 
 
(f) 
elaboration of the annual operational plans for the Project; 
 
(g) 
carrying out of Project procurement and contracting of the required 
goods, works and consultant’s services; 
 
(h) 
review and clearance of all the contracts necessary for Project execution; 
 
(i) 
carrying out of the financial management of the Project, including 
without limitation, the issuance of financial statements and reports as per 
Section II of this Schedule and the preparation and maintenance of 
administrative, procurement and financial records; 
 
(j) 
preparation and submission to the Bank of: (i) disbursement requests; 
and (ii) Project information and Project management reports in 
accordance with the formats established in the Operational Manual; and 
 
8
(k) 
provision of assistance and documentation to external independent  
 
auditors. 
 
2.  
The Borrower, through MINAG, shall maintain at all times during the execution 
 
of the Project: 
(a) 
a Project steering committee (Consejo Directivo), presided by the 
Borrower’s Minister of Agriculture or its designated representative, with 
the overall responsibility for providing policy oversight and guidance for 
the implementation of the Project and with powers and composition as 
defined in the Operational Manual (the “MARENASS’ Steering 
Committee"). The MARENASS’ Steering Committee shall be 
responsible, inter alia, for: 
 
(i) 
provision of support and of a coordination framework for the 
implementation of the Project; 
 
(ii) 
establishment of strategic guidelines for the implementation of 
the Project;  
 
(iii) 
review of the progress, evaluation, auditing and procurement 
reports issued by MARENASS for the Project; and 
 
(iv) 
oversight of compliance with Project norms and objectives and 
supervision of MARENASS’ execution of the Project. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MARENASS’ Steering Committee, shall be 
responsible to conduct the selection process of the Executive Director of 
MARENASS, the Manager of MARENASS, and the coordinators of the three 
technical units (Rural Business Coordinator, Community Development 
Coordinator and Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinator), following competitive 
selection procedures. 
 
B. 
Implementation Arrangements
The Borrower, through MARENASS shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project and ensure that Subprojects are carried out in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, including the Environmental 
Assessment (EA), and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision of these documents without the Bank’s 
prior written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of said 
documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
shall prevail; and 
9
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth 
in the Operational Manual (the Performance Indicators), the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof. 
 
C.  
Operational Manual
1. 
The Borrower, through MARENASS, shall carry out the Project in accordance 
 
with an operational manual satisfactory to MEF (through the Dirección General 
 
de Programación Multianual del Sector Público) and the Bank (the Operational 
 
Manual), such manual to include, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the procurement, disbursement, financial, social and 
environmental requirements thereof);  
 
(b) 
the roster of the Borrower’s regions and areas that are eligible to 
participate in the Project; 
 
(c) 
the administrative rules and procedures for planning, preparing, 
proposing, contracting, financing, carrying out and supervising the 
Subprojects, including the detailed criteria and procedures for their 
selection; 
 
(d) 
the EA and the Procurement Plan; and 
 
(e) 
the Performance Indicators. 
 
2. 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower when necessary, with 
 
the prior approval of the Bank.  In the case of any conflict between the terms of 
 
the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
 
shall prevail. 
 
D.  
Environmental and Social Provisions
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General Conditions 
 
and of Section I.B. of this Schedule, the Borrower, through MARENASS, shall 
 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of 
 
the EA (including provisions regarding pest management and social policies). 
 
E. 
Procurement Plan
1. 
The Borrower, through MARENASS, shall: 
10
(a) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about May 15 and November 15 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting on November 15, 2007, the 
updated Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing all 
procurement activities under the Project for the following twelve months; 
and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by June 15 and December 15 of each year, starting 
on June 15, 2008, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the plan 
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the plan based on 
its recommendations and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
2. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Procurement Plan and those of 
 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
F. 
Subprojects
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of parts B and C of this Section, the 
 
Borrower, through MARENASS, shall monitor the activities of the Subprojects 
 
in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph and those of the Operational 
 
Manual that include, inter alia:
(a) 
the administrative rules and procedures for the planning, preparing, 
proposing, selecting, contracting, financing, implementing, supervising, 
monitoring and evaluating Subprojects; 
(b) 
an indigenous peoples’ framework setting forth the strategies, 
procedures, activities, and monitoring indicators addressing, in a 
culturally appropriate manner, indigenous peoples’ concerns in the 
implementation of the Project, as well as for planning, preparation and 
proposals of Subprojects;  
(c) 
the environmental criteria for screening and selecting Subprojects, and 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for any such Subprojects, 
which could possibly have a negative environmental impact; and 
(d) 
the procedures related to the manufacturing, packaging, labeling, 
handling, storing, and disposal of any pesticides used in the carrying out 
of Subprojects. 
2. 
The Borrower, through MARENASS, shall furnish to the Bank, along with each 
 
Loan withdrawal application, a list of the respective Subprojects for which it is 
 
seeking reimbursement. 
11
3. 
The Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to an agreement (the Subproject 
 
Agreement), to be concluded between the Borrower, through MARENASS and 
 
the Subproject beneficiary (ies) under terms and conditions described in the 
 
Operational Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the following: 
(a) 
a copy of the approved activity with its budget, pre-investment study, 
disbursement and performance indicators; 
(b) 
the obligation of the Subproject beneficiary(ies) to: (i) carry out the 
activities with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, agricultural, social, natural and environmental 
standards and in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual; (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
simple and sound accounting practices defined in the Operational 
Manual, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Subproject; (iii) maintain adequate reporting in accordance with the 
standards specified in the Operational Manual; and (iv) make a 
contribution in kind or/and in cash as defined in the Operation Manual; 
(c) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Project shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in this Agreement and in the Procurement Plan; and 
(ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the activities financed by the Subproject; 
(d) 
the right of the MARENASS to inspect, by itself or jointly with the 
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the activities financed by the Subprojects, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(e) 
the right of MARENASS to obtain all information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial 
conditions of the activities financed by the Subprojects; and 
(f) 
(i) the right of MARENASS to suspend and terminate the right of 
Subproject beneficiary(ies) to use the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the 
obligation of the beneficiary(ies) to refund any used portion of the Loan 
to MARENASS, upon failure by the beneficiary(ies) to perform any of 
its obligations under the respective Subproject Agreement. 
 
12
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MARENASS, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of 
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Performance 
Indicators as agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one 
month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2012. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MARENASS, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than one month after the end of each 
calendar quarter (in the form set forth in the Operational Manual), interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MARENASS, shall have its Financial Statements audited 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
13
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth 
 
in Part E of this Section III 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Community Participation in Procurement 
14
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Commercial Practices 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
 
Bank. 
 
E. 
Special Provisions 
 
1. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
 
in this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
 
govern the procurement of goods, works and non-consultants’ services with 
 
National Competitive Bidding procedures under this Section: 
 
(a) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(b) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed 
in the invitation to bid.  
 
(c) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
bidding documents or any documentation related to such bidding 
documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
 
15
(d) 
The Borrower, through MARENASS, shall use standard bidding 
documents and standard evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
 
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
 
govern all employment of consultants: 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any 
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with 
either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any 
Peruvian authorities as a condition of participation in said selection 
process. 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MARENASS, shall use standard requests for 
proposals and standard evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to 
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association that are different from 
those required for Peruvian consultants. 
(e) 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, at the time 
he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, 
hold civil service office or any other position in any agency of the 
Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into any 
such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting 
services. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to: (a) finance the Front-end Fee in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the General Conditions; and (b) finance 
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in paragraph 2 below. 
 
16
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category, exclusive of Taxes. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1)Part 1 of the Project 
(Rural Business’ 
Subprojects) 
 
10,200,000 
Up to 100% of the amounts 
disbursed for the cost of goods, 
works, services, Training and 
Operating Costs 
 
(2) Part 2 of the Project 
(Community Development 
Subprojects) 
 
9,380,000 
Up to 100%% of the amounts 
disbursed for the cost of goods, 
works, services, Training and 
Operating Costs 
 
(3) Part 3(a) of the Project 
(goods, consultant and non-
consultant services, 
Training and Operating 
Costs) 
 
0
Up to 100% 
(4) Part 3(b) and 3(c) of the 
Project (goods, consultant 
and non-consultant 
services, Training and 
Operating Costs) 
 
420,000 
Up to 100% 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Collars 
 
Amounts payable pursuant to 
Section 2.08 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
(7) Unallocated 
 
0 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
20,000,000
17
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
(a) 
“Training” means reasonable expenditures incurred by the Borrower for 
the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including 
reasonable costs of travel, subsistence, and per diem for trainers and 
trainees, registration fees, training materials; and 
(b) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental expenses incurred 
on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including 
office 
supplies, 
insurance, 
communication 
expenses, 
equipment, vehicles, computer operation and maintenance, supervision 
costs, travel and per diem, as well as reasonable costs of Project 
promotional campaigning at the regional and local levels. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end 
Fee; or  
 
(b) 
under Category (3) until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that 
the SDU has been duly established within the PCM in accordance with 
the Borrower’s laws and regulations, and that in the opinion of the Bank, 
the SDU is fully operational so as to carry out Part 3 (a) of the Project in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
18
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On April 15, 2018 
50% 
On October 15, 2018 
50% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
19
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
20
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Community Development Subproject” means a subproject to diversify, expand, 
and/or improve the assets and production of rural families in selected areas of the 
Borrower’s territory that have limited access to markets, aimed primarily at 
improving natural resource management, reducing vulnerability to risks, and 
increasing agricultural and livestock production for self-consumption by families 
and organized rural communities through: (a) improvements to increase yields 
(including the use of improved cultivation techniques), soil conservation and 
water retention methods, optimized input use, and plant protection; (b) to the 
extent possible, generate excess production for sale in local markets; or (c) 
another development activity that meets the objective of the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, and that has been duly approved by the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the Borrower’s environmental 
assessment dated February 9, 2006, detailing, inter alia, the environmental and 
social mitigation measures to be applied during Project implementation, and 
containing the environmental assessment framework and the pest management 
plan for the Project, as such may be amended from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
 
6. 
“MARENASS” means Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto Manejo de 
Recursos Naturales en la Sierra Sur of MINAG, the Borrower’s Natural 
Resources Management Unit for the Southern Sierra, as established by the 
Borrower’s Presidential Emergency Decree No. 024-97 of March 19, 1997, as 
amended. 
 
7. 
“MARENASS Regulation” means the Borrower’s Reglamento de Organización y 
Funciones de la Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto Manejo de Recursos 
Naturales en la Sierra Sur, created through Presidential Emergency Decree No. 
024-97 of March 19, 1997. 
21
8. 
“MARENASS’ Steering Committee” means the Junta Directiva de MARENASS,
MARENASS’ steering committee as referred to in Section I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance. 
 
10. 
“MINAG” means Ministerio de Agricultura, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Agriculture. 
 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project referred 
to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“PCM” means Presidencia del Consejo de Ministros, the Borrower’s Presidency 
of the Council of Ministers. 
 
13. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for Project monitoring and 
evaluation as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 23, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Rural Business Subproject” means a subproject for the Borrower’s Sierra region 
that promotes productive alliances between regional and local stakeholders, in 
order to strengthen market access and competitiveness, increase productivity and 
production quality, create more predictable demand, provide key technological 
inputs, introduce new production practices, help disseminate timely market and 
pricing information, and/or identify and exploit emerging niche markets for: (a) 
agriculture (which may include activities related to, inter alia, crops, livestock, 
and agro-forestry); (b) nonagricultural activities (which may include aquaculture, 
tourism, services, handicrafts, small-scale industry, and agribusiness initiatives); 
or (c) for another agricultural or non-agricultural development activity that meets 
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, and that has been duly 
approved by the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
17. 
“SDU” means Unidad de Coordinación Multisectorial para el Desarrollo Rural 
en la Sierra, the Borrower’s Multisectoral Coordination Unit for Rural 
Development in the Sierra, as organized within PCM. 
22
18. 
“Sierra” means the Borrower’s regions located in the Peruvian Andes, rising 
above 2,000 meters. 
 
19. 
“Subprojects” 
means, 
collectively, 
Rural 
Business 
Subprojects and/or 
Community Development Subprojects. 
 
20. 
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement for the financing of a Subproject as 
referred to in paragraph F.3 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
