CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7512 EGT 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(The Integrated Sanitation and Sewerage Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 15, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7512 EGT 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 15, 2008, between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and twenty million 
Unites States dollars (US$120,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“the Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“the Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at 
a rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions.  For purposes of paragraph 43 of the General 
Conditions, the “Fixed Spread” for the initial Loan currency in effect at 12:01 
a.m. Washington, D.C time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement is .05%. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
NOPWASD is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purpose 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article II of the General Conditions. 
 
2.09. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the 
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect of the Loan. 
3
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through NOPWASD in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the First Under 
Secretary for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8 Adly Street, 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
(202) 2391-5167 
 
4
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi  
 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the sustainable improvement in:  
(a) sanitation and environmental conditions for the beneficiary communities; and (b) the 
water quality in the selected drainage basins within the served areas. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Provision of Sanitation Systems within selected drainage sub-basins
Planning, designing and construction of sanitation systems for about fourteen 
village clusters in the selected priority area within the two command areas of 
Mahmoudeya and Mit Yazid within the Governorates of Beheira, Gharbeya and Kafr El 
Sheikh in the Delta, including: (1) centralized sewage treatment plants; (2) centralized 
sewage collection networks consisting of house connections, transmission lines, and 
pumping stations; (3) decentralized sanitation systems including house connections, 
simplified collection networks and localized treatment plants to cover villages of about 
500 to 1500 inhabitants; and (4) a pilot project following the GTZ model of Kafr El 
Sheikh to provide decentralized sanitation systems for villages of up to 5000 inhabitants. 
 
Part B: Establishment of a Local Result-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
Establishing a results-based monitoring system within the HCWW that links the 
improvements in sanitation coverage with anticipated environmental and water quality 
impacts including technical assistance support for expertise in designing the system, 
identification of monitoring sites, data collection and analysis, results review, 
finalization, and communication. 
 
Part C: Institutional Development and Capacity Building
Supporting the institutional development and capacity building of the national 
and local public institutions responsible for sanitation implementation to enhance their 
capacity to plan, design, construct and operate the rural sanitation investments, monitor 
outputs and outcomes, promote hygiene practices and social mobilization as well as the 
implementation of the ESMMF to mitigate the potential environmental and social 
impacts associated with the Project activities. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the 
Project in NOPWASD and shall cause NOPWASD to implement the Project in 
accordance with the ESMMF, the RPF and the PIM. 
2. 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and execution of the Project, 
the Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of 
Housing, Utilities and Urban Development or his delegate, with membership 
composed of representatives of NOPWASD, HCWW, EWRA, MWRI, and 
MOHP.  The main responsibilities of the Steering Committee shall be to: (a) 
oversee the implementation of the Project; (b) review, discuss, and approve the 
Project investment and implementation plans; (c) ensure the collection, reporting 
and dissemination of monitoring and evaluation data by designated agencies; and 
(d) take and follow up decisions to resolve any Project implementation problems. 
3. 
For the purpose of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower, through 
NOPWASD, no later than forty five (45) days as at the Effective Date, establish 
and thereafter maintain a NOPWASD Project Unit to be responsible for design 
and implementation of all new wastewater treatment works.  The said unit shall 
be headed by a senior NOPWASD official and supported by a team of specialists 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and covering technical, 
procurement and financial management aspects of wastewater treatment plant 
design and construction. 
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, B and C of the Project, 
NOPWASD shall, not later than forty five (45) days as at the Effective Date, 
enter into appropriate contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, with an 
implementing agency (the “Interagency Agreement”).  The said agreement shall 
stipulate, inter alia, that: (a) implementing agency shall, on behalf of 
NOPWASD, implement Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, B and C of the Project in 
accordance with the ESMMF, the RPF and the PIM; and (b) to this end the 
implementing agency shall establish, not later than three (3) months as at the 
Effective Date, the PIU, with qualified staff in adequate numbers satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause NOPWASD to ensure that the Project is carried out 
pursuant to the provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
7
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants, dated October 15, 2006. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through NOPWASD monitor and evaluate the progress of 
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed 
with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2014. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through NOPWASD maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through NOPWASD prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through NOPWASD have the Project’s Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Works.   All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
8
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Method of Procurement of Works 
 
The following table specifies the method of procurement which may be 
used for works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may, through NOPWASD withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this 
Section, and such additional arrangements as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such arrangements), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
9
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Works 
 
119,700,000 
67% 
(2)  Premia for Interest 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Rate Collars  
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement 
(3)  Front-end Fee 
 
300,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
120,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
10 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 1 and November 1 
 
Beginning May 1, 2013 
 
through November 1, 2037 
 
2.00% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
11 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
12 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“EWRA” means the Egyptian Water Regulatory Agency of the Borrower 
established by virtue of Presidential Decree No. 136 of 2004, or any successor 
thereof. 
 
3. 
“Environmental and Social Management and Monitoring Framework” or 
“ESMMF” means the Borrower’s environmental and social management and 
monitoring framework for the Project furnished to the Bank on December 13, 
2007, as such framework may be updated from time to time by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the 
Project to offset or reduce adverse environmental and social impacts to levels 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
5. 
“Governorate” means an administrative division of the Arab Republic of Egypt. 
 
6. 
“HCWW” means the Egyptian Holding Company for Water and Wastewater 
established and operating pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 135 of 2004, or 
any successor thereof. 
 
7. 
“MOHP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Population, or any 
successor thereof. 
 
8. 
“MOHUUD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing, Utilities and Urban 
Development, or any successor thereof. 
 
9. 
“MSEA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of State for Environmental Affairs, or 
any successor thereof. 
 
10. 
“MWRI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation, or 
any successor thereof. 
 
11. 
“NOPWASD” means the National Organization for Potable Water and Sanitary 
Drainage of the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing, Utilities and Urban 
13 
 
Development established by virtue of Presidential Decree No. 197 of 1981 or any 
successor thereof. 
 
12. 
“NOPWASD Project Unit” means the unit to be established and maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“PIM” 
means 
the 
Borrower’s 
Project 
implementation 
manual 
dated  
March 15, 2008, as such manual may be updated from time to time by agreement 
between the NOPWASD and the Bank. 
 
14. 
“PIU” means the Project implementation unit to be established and maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 13, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraph. 
 
17. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
policy framework for the Project, furnished to the Bank on December 13, 2007, 
as such framework may be amended from time to time by agreement of the 
Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the rules, procedures and guidelines for the 
acquisition of land and/or other assets from Project affected persons and/or the 
resettlement and rehabilitation of such persons and the compensation thereof. 
 
18. 
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee to be established and 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
