CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7523-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Teresina Enhancing Municipal Governance and  
Quality of Life Project – Programa Lagoas do Norte) 
 
between 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF TERESINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 24, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7523-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 24, 2008, between the MUNICIPALITY OF TERESINA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty one million one hundred thirty 
thousand Dollars ($31,130,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are August 1 and February 1 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of National Treasury of the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEMPLAN in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE IV—EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has 
 
been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
4.02.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on September 28, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Mayor of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Prefeitura Municipal de Teresina 
Praça Marechal Deodoro, 860, Centro 
64000-160 – Teresina, PI 
Brasil 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(55-86) 3215-7522 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF TERESINA  
 
By /s/ Sílvio Mendes de Oliveira Filho 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to modernize and improve the management 
capacity of the Borrower in the financial, urban, environmental, service-delivery, and 
economic development fields and to improve the quality of life of the low-income 
population of the Lagoas do Norte Region. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1: Municipal Management Modernization, City Development, and Project 
Management 
Strengthening the Borrower’s management and technical capacity, through the 
provision of technical assistance and equipment for, inter alia:
(i)  
consolidating and improving the efficiency of the Borrower’s financial 
and budget management and planning capacity; 
 
(ii)  
modernizing the water supply and sanitation service delivery to comply 
with the WSS Law, including, inter alia: (a) the preparation and 
dissemination of a municipal integrated water supply and sanitation plan; 
(b) the creation and strengthening of a municipal water supply and 
sanitation regulating body; and (c) the formalization of the water supply 
and sanitation service delivery mechanism for the Borrower’s territory 
consistent with the WSS Law; 
 
(iii)  
modernizing the Borrower’s education management, including, inter 
alia, the elaboration and implementation of a new education policy for 
the Borrower; 
 
(iv)  
modernizing the Borrower’s urban and environmental management, 
including: (a) the preparation of the Borrower’s municipal urban, 
transport, drainage and solid waste management master plans and the 
elaboration of new or updated laws to accompany the finalization of 
these plans; (b) the development of consolidated strategies for enforcing 
existing legal and administrative mechanisms required to regularize 
slums and other irregular settlements, and for facilitating access to land; 
and (c) strengthening the Borrower’s environmental management 
capacity, including the introduction of an environmental licensing and 
enforcement control system. 
 
6
(v)  
developing and implementing a local economic development (LED) 
strategy for the Borrower; and  
 
(vi)  
carrying out Project management, monitoring and evaluation, to support 
the PMU to carry out the procurement, financial management, 
environmental, social and other requirements of the Project. 
 
Part 2: Integrated Urban-Environmental Development 
Carrying out of activities to improve the delivery of basic urban services and the 
overall environmental conditions in the Lagoas do Norte Region, including, inter alia:
(i) 
interventions to optimize and expand water supply delivery;  
 
(ii) 
implementation of wastewater collection, transmission and treatment 
systems; 
 
(iii) 
execution of critical urban macro-and micro-drainage interventions;  
 
(iv) 
actions to recuperate the natural environmental aspects of the region’s 
lagoon and canal network, and the adjacent banks of the Parnaíba and 
Poti rivers; 
 
(v) 
interventions in urban upgrading, and the rehabilitation and construction 
of green spaces, parks, and leisure and community spaces; 
 
(vi) 
interventions to improve the local road network, traffic flow, access and 
safety in the region; and 
 
(vii) 
undertaking resettlement of beneficiary families from areas of risk and 
from other areas of Project intervention, and implementing housing 
improvements for other eligible households. 
 
Part 3: Social and Economic Development
Carrying out of complementary interventions to Part 2 of the Project, including, 
inter alia:
(i) 
actions to strengthen community associations and other community 
groups in order to improve the access of eligible families to the Project’s 
social programs, crèches, basic health and education services, etc;  
 
(ii) 
undertaking of environmental and sanitary education and promotion 
activities;  
 
7
(iii) 
promotion of employment and income creation programs;  
 
(iv) 
renovation, expansion and construction of community facilities; and  
 
(v) 
promotion of community mobilization and participation in all aspects of 
Part 2 and Part 3 of the Project. 
 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1.  
At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, 
 
until completion of the Project: 
 
(a) 
a unit within SEMPLAN, to be responsible for the overall coordination 
and implementation of the Project (the “PMU”), such PMU to maintain 
staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank as set 
forth in the Operational Manual, including inter alia, the following 
responsibilities: 
 
(i) 
overall planning, coordination and monitoring of Project 
activities; 
(ii) 
carrying out of Project procurement and contracting of the 
required works, goods and consultant’s services; 
 
(iii) 
elaboration of the annual operational plans; 
(iv) 
carrying out of the financial management of the Project; 
(v) 
preparation and submission to the Bank of: (A) disbursement 
requests; and (B) Project information and Project management 
reports in accordance with the format established in the 
Operational Manual; and 
(vi) 
provision of assistance and documentation to external 
independent auditors; and  
(b) 
a Project Steering Committee, presided by the Borrower’s Mayor or its 
designated representative, with the overall responsibility for providing 
policy oversight and guidance for the implementation of the Project and 
with powers and composition acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the 
Operational Manual (the “PSC").  The PSC shall be responsible, inter 
alia, for:  
 
(i) 
provision of support and establishment of strategic guidelines for 
the implementation of the Project; 
 
9
(ii) 
inter-institutional coordination and establishment of strategic 
alliances with other stakeholders; 
 
(iii) 
review and approval of the annual operation plans for the 
Project; and 
 
(iv) 
review of the annual auditing reports of the Project. 
 
B. 
Operational Manual 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the “Operational Manual”), 
which shall detail the procedures and guidelines for the execution, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) 
the functions, responsibilities, structure and composition of the PMU;  
 
(b) 
the procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as 
for financial management and audits of the Project; 
 
(c) 
the Performance Indicators; and 
 
(d) 
the Environmental Assessment and the Resettlement Policy Framework. 
 
2. 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In the case of any conflict between the 
terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Environmental and Social Provisions  
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions and recommendations of the Environmental Assessment, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, the resulting Resettlement Plans and the 
procedures outlined in the Operational Manual, when applicable. 
2. 
Prior to initiating any bidding procedure for works under the Project, the 
Borrower shall, when applicable, submit to the Bank, for its review and approval: 
(i) a Resettlement Plan for the population affected by the relevant works, to be 
prepared in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework; and (ii) such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request, including the requisite 
environmental licensing. 
10
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any contractors that will carry out civil works 
under the Project shall perform their work in accordance with the technical, 
environmental and social practices for the Project, as set forth in the 
Environmental Assessment and respective EMP. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Performance Indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions; 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than one 
month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services.  All goods, works and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
 
11
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works and Non-
consultant Services 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following 
additional procedures: 
 
(i) contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has 
been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such 
evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, to 
also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.52 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the 
bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be 
quantified 
objectively, 
and 
the 
procedure 
for 
such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(ii) whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall 
be advertised in at least one newspaper of national circulation 
in Brazil; 
(iii) the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-
ventures (consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be 
approved in advance by the Bank in each case; 
12
Procurement Method
(iv)  the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the 
contract prices; and 
(v)  the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase 
or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and 
related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods and non-consultant 
services, pregão eletrônico set forth in the Guarantor’s Law No. 
10520, of July 17, 2002). 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on the Consultants’ 
 
Qualifications (CQS)  
 
(b) Single-Source Selection (SSS) 
 
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS) 
 
(d)  Least-Cost Selection (LCS) 
 
(e)  Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2. 
 
and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
 
for 
the 
Selection 
of 
Individual 
 
Consultants  
 
(f) Quality-Based Selection  
13
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of  
Expenditures 
to be financed
(1) Works   
 
21,939,000 
86% 
 
(2) Goods and Non-
 
consultant services 
 
2,910,000 
92 % 
 
(3) Consultants services 
 
4,396,000 
89 % 
 
(4) Unallocated 
 
1,807,175 
 
 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 2.07 
(c) of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 4.04 of 
the General Conditions 
 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
77,825 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 2.07 
(b) of the General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
31,130,000 
 
14
For the purposes of this table, the term “Non-consultant services” means the 
reasonable expenditures (none of which would have been incurred absent the Project), 
incurred by the Borrower for the implementation, management, coordination and 
supervision of the Project, including: (i) logistics for workshops and training courses; (ii) 
topographic surveys and mapping; (iii) undertaking and updating municipal cadastres; 
and (iv) printing and publishing services.  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2013. The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank 
 
that it agrees with such extension. 
15
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each August 1 and February 1: 
 
Beginning August 1, 2013  
through February 1, 2033 
 
2.5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
16
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
17
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, as referred to in point 4 
below. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s assessment of the Project 
environmental and social impacts, dated March 2007, including provisions 
regarding protection of natural habitats, protection of physical cultural resources 
and safety of dams and including an Environmental Management Plan with 
recommended mitigation measures for each negative impact identified, as such 
plan may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.  
 
6. 
“Lagoas do Norte Region” means the northern part of the Borrower’s territory, 
including the neighborhoods of Acarape, Matadouro, Alvorada, São Joaquim, 
Nova Brasília, Poti Velho, Mafrense, Olarias, Aeroporto, Itaperu, Alto Alegre, 
São Francisco and Mocambinho. 
 
7. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, dated February 2008, as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
8. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators to be used in the monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project. 
 
9. 
“PMU” means the Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa Lagoas do Norte-
UGP, the unit referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 6.028, dated July 2, 2004,  as 
annually renewed.  
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
18
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated  February 20, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee, the committee referred to in 
Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
13. 
“Resettlement Plan” means any plan prepared following the requirements of the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and approved by the Bank. 
 
14. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s document dated March 
2007, defining the procedures for the involuntary resettlement of the population 
in the event it is required in connection with the activities to be carried out under 
the Project, as said framework may be amended form time to time with the 
Bank’s prior approval.     
 
15. 
“SEMPLAN” means Secretaria Municipal de Planejamento e Coordenação, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning or its successor or successors thereto. 
 
16. 
“WSS Law” means the Guarantor’s water supply and sanitation Law No. 11.445, 
dated January 5, 2007, published in the Guarantor’s Official Register No. 5 on 
January 8, 2007, as it may have been amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Section  2.07 (b) shall read as follows: 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date and pay to 
itself the amount of the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to Section 3.01.” 
2. 
Section  3.01 shall read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the 
Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).” 
3. 
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.02, at the end thereof, which shall read 
as follows: 
 
19
“Section 3.02. Interest 
(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any amount of 
the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues 
for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the Default Interest Rate on such 
overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan Agreement (or such other 
interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a result of a Conversion) until 
such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default Interest Rate shall accrue from 
the first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on each Payment Date.” 
4.  
APPENDIX – Definitions: 
4.01. 
Definition (19) “Commitment Charge” is deleted. 
4. 02. Definition (40) “Fixed Spread” shall read as follows: 
“ “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan Currency in 
effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in 
the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided further that 
notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate 
applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a 
Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the 
Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
4. 03. Definition (43) “Front-end Fee” shall read as follows: 
“ “Front-end Fee” means the fee specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose 
of Section 3.01.” 
4. 04. Definition (56) “LIBOR Reset Date” shall read as follows: 
“ “LIBOR Reset Date” means:  
(a)  
for any Loan Currency other than Euro, the day two London Banking 
Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the 
case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding 
the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the 
date of the Loan Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth day of the 
month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date 
shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of 
such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed 
20
Spread Loan, the day two London Banking Days prior to the first or 
fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, 
whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; 
provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or 
fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) 
if the Conversion Date of a Currency Conversion of an amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency other than Euro 
falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion 
Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion Date; 
provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of 
such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date);  
(b)  
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first day of the 
relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period for 
a Variable Spread Loan, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the 
fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in which the Loan 
Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan 
Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of such month; (ii) in the case 
of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan 
Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR 
Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the date 
of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to Euro falls 
on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date for the 
Approved Currency shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to 
the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion Date falls, 
whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided that 
if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, 
the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two 
Target Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); and  
(c)  
notwithstanding sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, for a 
Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the Bank determines 
that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR Reset Date is on 
a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset 
21
Date shall be such other date, as further specified in the Conversion 
Guidelines.” 
4.05. 
Definition (63) “Loan Payment” shall read as follows: 
“ “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank 
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited 
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at 
the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a 
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
4.06. 
Definition (68) “Payment Date” shall read as follows: 
“ “Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement occurring on 
or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.” 
4.07. 
The following definitions are added to the Appendix at the end thereof: 
“ “Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount remains unpaid; 
provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall commence on the 31st 
day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, and the final such 
Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is fully paid.” 
“ “Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%).” 
“ “Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
22
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
“ “Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable 
Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
 
