CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7430-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Education Quality and Secondary Education Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 12, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7430-GU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 12, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars 
($80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal to eighty million Dollars ($80,000,000) shall be converted from 
the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in 
accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MINEDUC in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out through MINEDUC in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE IV— EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case 
later than the eighteen months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
expires on September 8, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
Centro Cívico, Zona 1 
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. 
 
Telephone: 
 
 
Fax: 
 
(502) 22485002  
 
(502) 22485005 
 
(502) 22485003  
 
(502) 22485084 
 
(502) 22485080 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By /s/ Juan Alberto Fuentes 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve access to a quality lower secondary 
education for low income students, especially in indigenous communities, through 
improved primary education completion rates for overage students, strengthened flexible 
lower secondary education modalities and school management.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1:  Primary Education Completion and Quality
Assisting Overage Students in finalizing their primary education cycle and continuing on 
to lower secondary schooling through:   
 
1.1. 
The establishment of integrated basic education centers to provide Targeted 
Schools with: 
 
(a) 
a quality accelerated program for Overage Students; 
 
(b) 
a flexible lower secondary education program; and 
 
(c) 
training and support for the leadership and management of the Targeted 
Schools. 
 
1.2. 
The development of pre-service teacher training by supporting the strengthening 
of regional pre-service teacher training centers through the provision and 
implementation of: 
 
(a) 
upgraded curricula; 
 
(b) 
new adapted study programs; 
 
(c) 
training of teachers’ trainers; 
 
(d)  
new applied pedagogy courses; and 
 
(e) 
à la carte, demand driven, specialized training in subject matters 
 
requested by regional pre-service training centers. 
 
Part 2:  Access and Quality of Lower Secondary Education
Increasing the quality of, and access to, lower secondary education through: 
 
6
2.1. 
The carrying out, using various participatory mechanisms, of feasibility studies, 
and integrated strategies and implementation pilots for lower and upper 
secondary education curricula and evaluation systems, most notably, to guide 
medium and longer-term reforms for this level. 
 
2.2. 
The strengthening and expansion of pertinent and flexible modalities for lower 
 
secondary education, using: 
 
(a) 
existing pedagogical modalities of the Borrower’s education system, 
most notably with respect to modalities pertinent for rural communities, 
as well as for indigenous students;  
 
(b) 
additional rural school places in lower secondary education to be 
allocated among, inter alia,
integrated basic education centers, 
cooperatives schools, public lower secondary schools, education NGOs 
and foundations providing lower secondary education services in the 
rural sector;  
 
(c) 
new student access subsidies to integrated basic education centers, 
cooperatives schools and public lower secondary schools, to be provided 
for, inter alia, acquisition of equipment, school furniture and small civil  
works for school refurbishing; and 
 
(d) 
new student access subsidies to schools operated by Participating NGOs 
providing lower secondary education services in the rural sector, for, 
inter alia, the provision of education materials, equipment, student 
transportation and meals. 
 
2.3. 
The improvement of the effectiveness of scholarship programs and the demand 
for education therewith for prospective students of schools supported under the 
Project through: 
(a) 
the carrying out of relevant studies and analysis to strengthen: (i) the 
identification and selection of prospective students admitted to the 
scholarship programs; (ii) the costing structures and mechanisms for the 
scholarship programs; and (iii) the monitoring and evaluation in respect 
of the scholarship and subsidy programs; and 
 
(b) 
the provision of scholarships to Eligible Students to enable them to 
complete lower secondary education. 
 
Part 3:  School Management in Support of Education Quality
Increasing the contribution of school-based management to the quality of learning in the 
territory of the Borrower through: 
7
3.1. 
The consolidation and strengthening of school-based management for education 
 
quality, including, in relation thereto: 
 
(a) 
the provision of technical advisory services by DDEs and NGOs to 
organize and strengthen school boards, education committees and other 
organizations legally established for school’s support; and thereafter 
 
(b) 
the promotion of education outcome information, including report cards 
and school-based information systems, to assist the schools in planning 
simple school-based strategies for improved quality teaching and 
learning; and subsequently 
 
(c) 
the provision of grants to implement school improvement plans prepared 
under 3.1(b) above. 
 
3.2. 
The strengthening of capacity of sub-regional education offices of the Borrower 
 
to improve the quality of the technical support and the assistance in supervision 
 
of pedagogical and management processes which they provide, through: 
 
(a) 
the development of: (i) improved strategies, instruments and knowledge 
to support, inter alia, lower secondary education rural modalities and the 
school management models; (ii) improved DDE knowledge and 
involvement in the preparation of school improvement plans; (iii) the 
collection of school education outcomes and utilization of report cards; 
and (iii) the provision of technical assistance and supervision to schools; 
 
(b) 
the reassessment of the internal organizational structure of DDEs for 
selected Borrower’s departments to ensure that selected key teams 
receive specific training and technical assistance in the areas of, inter 
alia: (i) training and standardized testing; (ii) financial transfers to 
schools; (iii) coordination of school access and expansion inputs; and  
(iv) supervision assistance; and 
 
(c) 
the carrying out of the result monitoring and impact evaluation of the 
Project. 
 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Implementation Documents 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, has adopted a Project operational 
 
manual dated January 11, 2007, satisfactory in form and substance to 
 
the Bank, therein setting forth rules, methods, guidelines, standard 
 
documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including 
 
the following: 
 
(i) 
the detailed description of: (A) Project activities; and (B) 
institutional arrangements in respect thereof; 
 
(ii) 
the administrative, financial, accounting, auditing, procurement 
and disbursement procedures for the implementation of the 
Project including the relevant standard documents in relation 
thereto; 
 
(iii) 
(A) the selection criteria for: (i) Overage Students, under Part 1 
of the Project (ii) Targeted Schools, under Part 1.1 of the Project; 
(iii) Participating NGOs, under Part 2.2(d) of the Project; (iv) 
Eligible Students in respect of Part 2.3 (b) of the Project; and (v) 
grants under Part 3.1(c) of the Project; and (B) the terms, 
conditions and procedures for the involvement in Project 
implementation of all stakeholders selected using criteria 
specified in (A) above, including all financial transfers, 
subsidies, grants and scholarships in relation thereto;  
 
(iv) 
the IPP disclosed to the general public on November 13, 2006 
therein setting forth the guidelines and procedures for evaluating 
the impact of the Project on, and  increasing Project benefits to,  
the indigenous communities of the Borrower’s territory; and 
 
(v) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the 
Project, including the Performance Indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall: (i) maintain the OM 
 
throughout Project implementation; (ii) take all measures necessary to 
 
ensure that the Project is carried out in conformity with the OM; and (iii) 
 
only amend the OM, from time to time, with the Bank’s prior written 
 
consent. 
9
(c) 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the OM and those  
 
of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail. 
 
B. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that:  
 
(a) 
MINEDUC maintains responsible personnel for the Project, including  
procurement and financial management specialists, adequate in number 
and having terms of reference, functions and resources satisfactory to the 
Bank at all times during Project implementation;  
 
(b) 
MINEDUC remains responsible for the effective coordination of the 
overall Project, including the coordination of procurement, financial 
management, auditing, monitoring and evaluation aspects in relation 
thereto;  
 
(c)  
MINEDUC submits, not later than October 15 in each year during the 
course of Project implementation, annual work plans for the following 
year, including procurement and budget, for the Bank’s review and 
comments; and thereafter 
 
(d) 
effectively carries out the Bank’s recommendations regarding said plans. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall ensure the provision of:  
 
(a) 
new student access subsidies under Part 2.2(c) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
 
(b)  
new student access subsidies under part 2.2 (d) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
 
(c) 
scholarships to Eligible Students under part 2.3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and  
 
(d) 
grants to implement school improvement plans under part 3.1 (c) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, is carried out, managed and evaluated in 
accordance with the criteria, procedures and guidelines  set forth in the 
OM. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provision of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
10
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports  
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of 
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with 
the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2014. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, as 
 
part of the Project Report, not later than forty five days after the end of each 
 
calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering 
 
the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MINEDUC, shall have the Project’s Financial Statements 
 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
 
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such 
 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
 
such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non Consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non 
 
Consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
 
provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
11
 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non Consultant 
 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
 
2 below, goods, works and Non Consultant Services shall be procured under 
 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non Consultant 
 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non 
 
Consultant Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
 
under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject 
to using Standard Bidding Documents 
agreed with the Bank  
 
(b) Shopping, subject to using Standard 
Bidding Documents agreed with the Bank 
 
(c) Community Participation in 
Procurement, as set forth in the OM 
 
(d) Direct Contracting, subject to the 
Bank’s prior consent 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
12
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s 
Qualifications 
 
(e) Single Source Selection, subject to the 
Bank’s prior consent  
 
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants, 
including through Single-Source Selection 
requiring Bank’s prior consent 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan and its annual updates shall set forth those contracts which shall be 
subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
 
such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to: (i) finance the Front-end Fee in 
 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the General Conditions; and (ii) finance 
 
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
13
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
1. Goods 
 
11,500,000 
100% 
2. Small Works  
 
2,000,000 
100%  
3. Consulting Services 
 
7,900,000 
100% 
4. Non Consultant Services 
for IEC campaigns. 
 
2,600,000 
 
100% 
5. Training 
 
8,800,000 
100%  
6. Goods, works, consultant 
 services under Part 3.1(c) 
 of Schedule 1 to this 
 Agreement 
 
8,500,000 
100% 
7. Goods, works, consultant 
 services under Part 2.2 (c) 
 and Part 2.2 (d) of 
 Schedule 1 to this 
 Agreement 
 
35,300,000 
100%  
8. Scholarships under Part 
 2.3 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
 this Agreement  
 
2,800,000 
100%  
9.  Front-End fee 
 
200,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement  in accordance 
with Section 2.07 of the 
General Conditions 
10.Unallocated 
 
400,000 
 
TOTAL 
 
80,000,000
14
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement  
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
15
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15  
 
Beginning March 15, 2013 
 
through September 15, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
16
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
17
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“DDE” means a Dirección Departamental de Educación, any of MINEDUC’s 
decentralized offices at the departmental level. 
 
5. 
“Eligible Student” means a low income student who has met all the criteria set 
forth in the OM in respect of Part 2.3 of the Project. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007).  
 
7. 
“IEC” means Information Education and Communication campaigns in relation 
with the Borrower’s education programs. 
 
8. 
“IPP” means the Indigenous Peoples Plan prepared for the Project, including in 
respect of the Mayan, Garifuna and Xinca people, as referred to in Section I. A. 
1(a) (iv) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“MINEDUC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education. 
 
10. 
“NGO” means a Non Governmental Organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower. 
 
11. 
“Non Consultant Services” means in respect of Category (4) in the table of 
Section IV.A(2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, all technical and professional 
services required for the organization and carrying out of IEC campaigns related 
to the Borrower’s education programs. 
 
12. 
“Operational Manual” and “OM” means the manual referred to in Section I.A (1) 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
18
13. 
“Overage Student” means any student with two or more years of age above the 
corresponding age for the grade in which he or she is enrolled. 
 
14. 
“Participating NGO” means a non governmental organization operating one or 
several schools in the territory of the Borrower and which has met all the criteria 
set forth in the OM. 
 
15. 
 “Performance Indicators” means the indicators for evaluating the performance of 
the Project referred to in Section I.A.1 (a) (v) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and set forth in the OM. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 10, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“Targeted School” means a publicly owned and operated school and a 
cooperative school, which are selected for Project implementation based on the 
poverty and education efficiency maps established by MINEDUC and its 
commitment to certain Project specific achievements and actions, all as set forth 
in the OM. 
 
19. 
“Training” means in respect of Category (5) of the table in Section IV.A(2) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures as incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility 
rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses not otherwise covered under said Section IV.A(2) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
19
 
wb77786 
M:\GUATEMALA\Projects\Education quality and Secondary Education\Loan 7430-GU-
Redline version of LA with pricing reduction.doc 
03/27/2008 
4:20:00 
PM
 
