CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4882 UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Public Finance Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 25, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4882 UA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 25, 2008, between UKRAINE (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000) 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
 
percent  (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal 
to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
The IWG has been dissolved, replaced, or removed, or its powers and 
duties have been altered to the extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, it 
can no longer carry out its obligations under the Project, without the 
prior consent of the Bank; 
 
(b) 
APST has been dissolved, replaced, or removed, or its powers and duties 
has been altered to the extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, it can no 
longer carry out its obligations under the Project, without the prior 
consent of the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
The PFMS Modernization Strategy has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived without prior consent of the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a)  
the Annual Work Plan for fiscal year 2008 has been approved by the 
IWG;  
 
(b)  
the Project Operations Manual has been approved by the MoF for Project 
implementation; and 
 
(c)  
The PFMS Action Plan has been approved by the MoF for 
implementation of the PFMS Modernization Strategy. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
3
5.03. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties 
hereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General 
Conditions.  Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending 
agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
Kyiv, 01008 
Ukraine 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
131450  
 
(380-44) 253 82 43 
 
(380-44) 207 05 08 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By /s/ Viktor Pynzenyk 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Paul Bermingham 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen public financial management by 
improving operational efficiency and transparency.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Strengthening the Institutional Capacity and Operational Effectiveness 
Capacity building as well as the enhancement and optimization of the functions 
of the MoF, KRU and the STU in certain areas, including but not limited to: (a) 
improvement of budget planning and mid-term budgeting; (b) methodological support for 
performance based budgeting (c) formulation and approval of state and local budgets; 
and; (d) budget execution,  monitoring and financial reporting for state and local budgets; 
(e) state debt management; (f) participation in management of international financial 
assistance; and (g) public internal financial control. 
 
Part 2: Development of an Integrated PFMS
Integration of key public financial management functions in order to develop a 
single centralized information system which serves as a core to all public financial 
management processes, through: 
 
(a) 
provision of goods and services in order to develop information 
exchange mechanisms and automation of critical office services; 
 
(b) 
provision of services and training in order to support the change 
management activities for effective use and sustainability, and to provide 
expertise in technical project management and technological aspects of 
contract management; and 
 
(c) 
development of integrated PFMS software and installation of central 
servers as well as installation of the PFMS field hardware and network 
equipment, with a sufficient level of information security. 
 
Part 3: Project Management
Provision of support to the MoF, to enhance its capacity for effective 
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia, goods, services (including audit), 
training and incremental operating costs, as necessary to provide such support. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the IWG during Project implementation, which 
shall: (i) act as a body responsible for the strategic coordination and oversight of 
Project activities; (ii) review and approve the Annual Work Plan of the Project; 
and (iii) support its implementation. 
2. 
The APST shall be responsible for the overall Project management, including 
financial and procurement management and other Project-related tasks, in 
accordance with the Project Operations Manual. The APST shall be managed by 
and report to, the Project Manager, and be maintained with adequate staff in 
number, and with qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall take all actions required to ensure that the Project Operations 
Manual is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project.  
 
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, or as the Bank may otherwise deem it 
necessary to update the Project Operations Manual to reflect and support a 
sustainable evaluation of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the APST 
does not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project Operations Manual or any 
provisions thereof. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than two months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
7
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall implement, by no later than June 30, 2008, an automated 
accounting and reporting software system at the APST to support Project 
accounting and automatically generate periodic financial reports. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the APST, maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through the APST, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
5. 
The Borrower, thorough the APST, shall: 
 
(a) 
have the control framework, the operational processes and procedures 
followed under the Project, audited for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank) in accordance with terms of reference and by 
independent auditors both acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to 
by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the assessment of the internal 
control framework, the operational processes and procedures referred to 
in paragraph (a) above for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such processes and 
procedures by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, 
as to whether they provide the Borrower adequate accounting, internal 
control and financial reporting as intended for the Project; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such internal 
control framework, operational processes and procedures, and the audit 
of such internal control framework, operational processes and 
procedures, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to 
time reasonably request. 
 
8
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I 
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
9
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following: 
 
(i) Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic firms.  Foreign firms shall 
not be excluded from the national competitive bidding process 
irrespective of the contract value. 
 
(ii) Procedures
(A) 
“Open tender procedures” shall be followed in all cases.  
 
(B) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the at least one (1) 
nationally circulated daily newspaper of the Borrower allowing 
a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids.  
 
(C) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost.  
 
(iii) Pre-qualification
(A)    
Prequalification, where used, shall be based on a “pass/fail” 
system.  
(B)     Minimum experience, technical, and financial requirements 
shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.  
 
(iv) Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
(A) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory shall 
be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish 
that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government.   
 
(B) 
Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(v) Bidding Documents
(A) 
The Borrower shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample bidding 
documents, including pre-qualification documents, for the 
procurement of goods or technical services (other than 
10
consultants’ services), all acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(B) 
Bidding documents shall be made available to all those 
companies that have paid the required fee. 
 
(vi) Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(A) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  
 
(B) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(C) 
No domestic preference shall be allowed in evaluating bids. 
 
(D) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having 
submitted the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and 
no negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract award. 
 
(vii)  Rejection of Bids
(A) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is 
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. 
 
(B) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(viii)  Securities
Bid security shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of 
the contract. Performance security shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of 
the contract price. No advance payments shall be made to contractors 
without a suitable advance payment security. The format of all such 
securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b) Limited International Bidding 
 
(c) Shopping 
 
(d) Direct Contracting 
 
11
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(c) Individual Consultants 
(d) Single Source Selection   
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
12
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, services and, 
training for Part 2(c) of the 
Project 
 
44,875,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, services and 
training for all Parts of the 
Project, other than Part 
2(c); incremental operating 
costs and audit  
 
5,000,000 
 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or   
 
(b) 
under Category (1) for expenditures for Part 2(c) of the Project until the 
establishment of the PFMS countrywide network telecommunication 
lines are completed, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 
13
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the 
Loan Payable 
(Expressed in U.S. Dollars)
July 15, 2013 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2014 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2014 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2015 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2015 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2016 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2016 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2017 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2017 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2018 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2018 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2019 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2019 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2020 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2020 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2021 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2021 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2022 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2022 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2023 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2023 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2024 
2,085,000 
July 15, 2024 
2,085,000 
January 15, 2025 
2,045,000 
Totals 
50,000,000 
14
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
 “APST” means the Administration and Procurement Support Team, which is 
responsible for implementation and coordination of the Project, under the 
supervision of the Project Manager and which is made up of (a) the MoF officials 
working at the Sector for Implementation of the PFMP, established under the 
Department for Cooperation with International Financial Organizations of the 
MoF, with the MoF’s Order No. 759, dated June 26, 2007, or its successor, and 
(b) staff hired under the Project. 
2. 
“AWP” means the Borrower’s detailed annual work plan for implementation of 
the Project for the upcoming year, including details as to component activities, a 
procurement plan and a disbursement plan, which in each year will be reviewed 
and approved by the IWG. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, 
revised October 2006. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007).  
 
7. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower, 
through the MoF, to finance reasonable and necessary operating expenses of the 
APST  including hired staff fees and reimbursables (but excluding civil servants 
salaries), office equipment and supplies, stationary, maintenance, communication 
(internet and telephone), transportation, travel and per diem, advertising in local 
press, bank charges, software subscriptions and any other expenses as may be 
agreed with the Bank. 
 
8. 
“Interagency Working Group” or “IWG” means the group, chaired by the 
Minister of Finance, established and acting in accordance with the Resolution of 
the Cabinet of Ministers No. 812 dated June 6, 2007, or its successor.
15
9. 
“KRU” means the Main Control and Revision Office of Ukraine (Golovne 
Kontrolne-Reveziyne Upravlinnya), which acts in accordance with the 
Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 884 dated June 27, 2007, or its 
successor.
9. 
 Ministry of Finance or “MoF” means the central body of executive power of the 
Borrower which acts in accordance with the Regulation of the Cabinet of 
Ministers No. 1837 dated December 27, 2006, or its successor. 
 
11. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the manual, which sets out the procedures 
for implementation of the Project, and including, inter alia: (i) procedures 
governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements and plan preparation and reporting 
requirements; and (ii) details of the Project Parts. 
 
12. 
“PFMS” means Public Financial Management System of the Borrower. 
 
13. 
“PFMS Action Plan” means the action plan for implementation of the PFMS 
Modernization Strategy prepared by the MoF, STU and KRU. 
14. 
“PFMS Modernization Strategy” means the strategy for modernizing the Public 
Finance Management System, adopted by the Resolution of the Cabinet of 
Ministers No. 888 dated October 17, 2007. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, revised October 
2006. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 8, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
17. 
“Project Manager” means the Deputy Minister of Finance, responsible for the 
overall Project management. 
 
18. 
“State Treasury of Ukraine” or “STU” means the government body of the 
Borrower which acts in accordance with the Regulation of the Cabinet of 
Ministers No. 1232 dated December 21, 2005, or its successor. 
 
19. 
“Training” means all training activities under the Project, and training 
expenditures shall cover expenditures incurred by the Borrower for such training, 
including reasonable costs of transportation, training materials and publications, 
accommodations and per diem, interpretation services, cost of study tours and 
workshops, and such other expenditures as may be agreed with the Bank.
16
 
