CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7500-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Savings and Rural Finance SAGARPA Project) 
Additional Financing 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 8, 2008  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7500-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 8, 2008, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”) represented by its signatory on page 4 of this Agreement and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty one million Dollars 
($21,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Director General Adjunto de Banca Institucional of BANSEFI or 
any person or persons whom they shall jointly designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
2
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, at any time, request any 
of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to 
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project, through SAGARPA, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
3
through SAGARPA, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that any of 
the events of suspension referred to in Article V of the Original Loan Agreement 
has occurred. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract has been modified in a manner acceptable to 
the Bank so as to reflect changes in implementation arrangements under this 
Loan Agreement as compared to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on July 17, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of 
SHCP. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688 -1156 
 
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the financial stability and outreach 
capacity of SCIs throughout Mexico, with emphasis on those serving rural areas of the 
country, to thus contribute to the integration of low-income populations into the Mexican 
economy by increasing such populations’ access to financial services and consequently 
aid in the realization of such populations’ income-generating potential. 
 
The Project consists of the following: 
 
Part A: Expansion of Financial Services in Rural Areas; SCI Sector Studies, Monitoring 
and Information Dissemination and Project Management
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to individual SCIs to support the design 
and implementation of regional development plans to allow them to increase their 
financial services outreach to selected low-income rural populations at the national level 
that are underserved by the financial services sector (if necessary through the 
establishment of additional SCIs or through the establishment of new points of service, in 
which case the new offices or additional SCIs may, as part of the technical assistance 
package, receive support for infrastructure and expansion services.  
 
2. 
(a) 
Carrying out of studies of financial intermediation in rural areas, 
with a view to defining new financial methodologies adapted to local conditions; and (b) 
carrying out of activities to monitor and evaluate Project implementation, impact of 
sector interventions, and performance of individual SCIs supported by Part A.1 of the 
Project. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance, training and material support to the 
Technical Unit in order to assist in its Project implementation functions. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
All implementation arrangements referred to in Article III and Schedule 6 of the 
Original Loan Agreement, as apply to Part B, Part C.2 and D.2 of the Original 
Project, shall apply for the execution of Part A of the Project. For the purposes of 
Part A.1 of the Project, however, Schedule 6, Part B.2 (g) of the Original Loan 
Agreement shall apply to all regions (not just those identified in the Original 
Loan Agreement). 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
Borrower, through SAGARPA, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
relevant IPDP and IPF (as the case may be). 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of 
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed 
with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
7
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through SAGARPA, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SAGARPA, shall have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than National Competitive Bidding, which may 
be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Shopping 
8
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Fixed Budget 
(b) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, pursuant to the 
BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this 
Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower and /or to BASEFI (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures and the Front-end Fee as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
9
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Consultants’ services and 
training for Part A.1 (only for 
the technical assistant part of 
said consultancies), Part A.2 
and Part A.3 of the Project 
 
20,910,000 
 83%  
(2) Incremental operating costs 
     37,500 
100%  
 
(3) Front-end Fee 
     52,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
21,000,000 
 
For purposes of this paragraph the terms: 
 
(a) 
“training” includes only: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainees in connection with their training; (ii) reasonable fees 
charged by consultants serving as trainers; (iii) reasonable course fees charged by 
academic institutions; (iv) reasonable training facility and equipment rental expenses; and 
(v) reasonable training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution 
expenses not otherwise covered under this paragraph; and  
 
(b) 
“incremental operating costs” includes reasonable recurrent expenditures 
incurred in connection with operation of the Technical Unit for rentals, travel, room, 
board and per diem expenditures, maintenance, consumable materials and supplies and 
utilities (but not including any salaries), which would not have been incurred absent the 
Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made within twelve (12) months of this Agreement, but in no case prior to December 1, 
2007, for Eligible Expenditures.  Furthermore, no withdrawals shall be made from the 
Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-End Fee referred 
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2011. 
10
SCHEDULE 3 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2013 
 
through September 15, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
11
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
12
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“Expansion Project Area” means selected municipalities in the Borrower’s 
territory, identified in the Implementation Letter (as hereinafter defined). 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
6. 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from BANSEFI 
and SAGARPA to the Bank, containing (i) the performance indicators for Project 
monitoring and evaluation, (ii) the list of municipalities that constitute the 
Expansion Project Area, (iii) the Social Development Model and (iv) the criteria 
for an SCI (as hereinafter defined) to qualify for participation in Part A.1 of the 
Project. 
7. 
“IPDP” means each of the following indigenous peoples’ development plans: (i) 
SAGARPA’s March 2002 Plan de Desarrollo de Pueblos Indígenas de las 
Huastecas; (ii) SAGARPA’s March 2002 Plan de Desarrollo de Pueblos 
Indígenas de Chiapas; (iii) SAGARPA’s 2003 plans for Guerrero, Puebla, 
Michoacan, Oaxaca and Veracruz; and (iv) any such plan prepared by 
SAGARPA in accordance with the IPF (as hereinafter defined) for purposes of 
carrying out Part A.1 of the Project. 
8. 
“IPF” means the indigenous peoples development framework for the Project, 
which framework serves as a base for the preparation of development plans 
(through the carrying out of social analyses and consultations and the 
implementation of the Social Development Model (as hereinafter defined)) to 
ensure indigenous peoples benefit from the Project. 
 
13
9. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement dated February 28, 2003 
(Loan Number 7132-ME) between the Borrower and the Bank for the purposes 
of financing the Original Project (as hereinafter defined). 
 
10. 
“Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 2 of the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 31, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Social Development Model” “Social Development Model” means a 
methodology for the consultative elaboration of IPDPs and for the extension of 
Project benefits to economically marginalized sectors of the population of the 
Expansion Project Area. 
 
14. 
The terms “BANSEFI”, “BANSEFI/SAGARPA Contract”, “Project Operational 
Manual”, “SAGARPA”, “SCI”, “SHCP”, and “Technical Unit” have the 
meaning ascribed to them in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
