CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7506-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(São Paulo Trains and Signaling Project) 
 
between 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 12, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7506-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 12, 2008, between the STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $550,000,000, (five hundred fifty 
million Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to partially finance the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Secretário de Transportes Metropolitanos.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor and through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National 
Treasury,  request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the 
Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of 
the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; 
and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each consecutive Interest Periods shall be converted from the initial Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
3
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions: (i) carry out Part B.1.of the Project through STMSP; and (ii) 
cause Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project to be carried out by CPTM, and Parts A. 2 
and B. 3 of the Project to be carried out by SP METRO, both under the 
coordination of STMSP.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the 
 
CPTM/SP METRO. 
 
4.02. The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The CPTM Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the CPTM and is legally binding upon the CPTM in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
(b) 
The SP METRO Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by SP METRO and is legally binding upon the SP METRO in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
(c) 
The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
4.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on November 2, 2009. 
 
4
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda  
 
Avenida Rangel 300 – 5º andar  
 
São Paulo – SP 
 
CEP: 01017-911 
 
Facsimile: (55-11-3243 3296) 
 
With copies to: 
 
Secretaria dos Transportes Metropolitanos - STM 
 
Rua Boa Vista 175 Bloco B – 10 º Andar 
 
São Paulo – SP 
 
CEP: 01.014-001 
 
Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos - CPTM 
 
Rua Boa Vista 175 Bloco A – 9º Andar 
 
São Paulo – SP 
 
CEP: 01.014-001 
 
Companhia do Metropolitano de São Paulo - METRÔ 
 
Rua Boa Vista 175 Bloco B – 7º Andar 
 
São Paulo – SP 
 
CEP: 01.014-001 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
By /s/ José Serra 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Evangeline Javier 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is: (a) to improve the level-of-service provided to the 
urban rail transport users in the SPMR in a safe and cost-efficient manner by increasing 
the peak–hour and off-peak carrying capacity of Lines A and F of the CPTM and Lines 1, 
2 and 3 of the SP METRO; and (b) to continue the strengthening of the transport 
management and policy framework in the SPMR. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment
1. 
Provision of financing for CPTM’s trains and systems, including: (a) the 
acquisition of forty trains (EMUs) of  8 cars each and accessories for a total of 320 cars to 
be operated  in Lines A and  F of the CPTM network; (b) the supply and installation 
and/or rehabilitation of traction electrical power systems for selected substations of Line 
A and Line F of the CPTM network; (c) supply and installation and/or rehabilitation of 
the electrical cabinets in selected stations of Line A and  Line F of the CPTM network; 
(d) supply and installation of auxiliary power lines for Lines A and F of the CPTM 
network; (e) supply and installation of a signaling system operated from the operations 
control center (OCC) of the CPTM network; (f) the supply and installation of an 
electronic telecommunication system for the CPTM Lines A and F; and (g) associated 
civil works for (b) to (f) above if necessary  
2. 
Provision of financing for SP METRO trains and systems, including: (a) the 
acquisition of seventeen trains (EMUs) of 6 cars each and accessories for a total of 102 
cars to be operated in Line 1 and Line 3 of SP METRO network; (b) the supply and 
installation of a new signaling system known as Communication Based Train Control 
(CBTC) in Lines 1, 2 and 3 of the SP METRO network; (c) supply and installation of a 
telecommunication system, access control system (ACS) and platform screen doors 
(PSD) for the SP METRO Lines 1, 2 and 3; and (d) the modernization of the existing 
OCC for the SP METRO Lines 1, 2 and 3. 
Part B: Institutional and Policy Development
1.  
Provision of technical assistance to the STMSP for the carrying out of studies on 
policy development, including: (a) consolidating the CDTI for the SPMR; (b) updating the 
current integrated transport policy, land use and air quality management strategy (PITU) for 
the SPMR to meet both transport and air quality targets and to introduce sound cost-
recovery, tariff, regulatory and subsidy policies; and (c) providing an action plan to review 
the funding of the urban transport system in the SPMR in view of the adoption of the BUI. 
 
7
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to CPTM for (a) the carrying out of studies on 
evaluating the outsourcing to the private sector of selected services including, inter alia, 
maintenance of track and systems, rolling stock and other operational services; and 
assessing the impact on affordability, accessibility, availability and acceptability of the 
Project for the low income urban rail transport users; and (b) management and 
supervision of the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project.   
3. 
Provision of technical assistance to SP METRO for: (a) carrying out of studies to 
assess the impact on affordability, accessibility, availability and acceptability of the 
Project for the low income urban rail transport users; and  
(b) 
management and supervision of the carrying out of Part A.2 of the 
Project; and provision of financing for the operating costs of SP METRO PMU.   
 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the execution and until 
completion of the Project, a unit within STMSP to be responsible for the overall 
coordination of the Project (the “PCU”), such PCU to have structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate 
qualifications, for the purposes of assisting STMSP in the general coordination of the 
Project implementation. The PCU shall be headed at all times by a coordinator with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, who 
shall report directly to the Secretário de Transportes Metropolitanos.  
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the overall coordination of the implementation of the Project and the 
carrying out of the CPTM and SP METRO’s Respective Parts of the Project, the 
Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement with the Project Implementing 
Entities, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia, the obligations of each Project Implementation Entity under the 
Project, namely the obligation to operate the respective trains to be financed 
under Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project (“Subsidiary Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Environmental and Social Provisions 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General 
 
Conditions, the Borrower shall carry out and shall cause the Project to be carried 
 
out in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the 
 
Environmental Assessment.  
9
2.  
Prior to initiating operation of acquired new trains under Part A 1. of the Project, 
 
the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to submit to the Bank 
 
evidence that the environmental license (Licenca de Instalação) required for the 
 
execution of the planned Project works has been issued for the respective lines. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to ensure that any 
 
contractors that will carry out civil works under the Part A of the Project shall 
 
perform their work in accordance with the technical and environmental practices 
 
for the Project, as set forth in the EA. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank (“Indicators”). 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than two months after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. The respective Terms 
of Reference (TOR) for such audits shall be prepared by the Borrower and 
approved by the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods, works and non-consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured 
10
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
International Competitive Bidding. 
Goods, works and non-consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding.  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
Fixed Budget 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
11
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) Consultants’ services 
 
for Part B. 1 of the 
 
Project 
 
130,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, Works and 
 
Consultant services for 
 
Part A.1. and B.2 of the 
 
Project  
 
355,895,000 
 
100% 
(3) Goods, Works and 
 
Consultant services for 
 
Part A.2. and B.3 of the 
 
Project 
 
192,600,000 
 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
1,375,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (c) of the 
this Agreement  
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
550,000,000 
 
 
12
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $110,000,000 equivalent may be made 
 
for payments made within one year prior to this date but in no case before August 
 
30, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall, within the limits of its authority, commit to preserve the 
CDTI and BUI at all times during execution and until the completion of the Project, in 
the present or other format as long as it continues to enhance the mobility and 
affordability of metropolitan transport to users particularly those of low-income. In 
addition, the Borrower shall undertake its best efforts to extend the BUI to other modes of 
transportation and expand the CDTI to include other municipalities of the SPMR. 
 
13
 SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
 
Beginning May 15, 2013 
through November 15, 2032 
 
2.5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
14
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
15
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“BUI” means Bilhete-Único Integrado, an integrated single fare electronic ticket 
which within a two-hour period allows the integration of transport modes, with 
one trip over the rail based system (SP METRO or CPTM) and up to three bus 
trips within the São Paulo municipality bus transport system. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“CDTI” means Comitê Diretor de Transporte Integrado, the Borrower’s 
integrated transport coordination committee, created on May 11, 2006 through a 
protocol signed by the STMSP and the São Paulo Secretary of Municipal 
Transport to ensure the technical and institutional cooperation for the 
implementation of actions to promote the integration of policies, plans, projects 
and programs of the public transport systems and traffic management in the 
SPMR. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“CPTM” means Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos, the Borrower’s 
metropolitan trains company. 
 
7. 
“CPTM PMU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A. of the Schedule to the 
CPTM Project Agreement, established pursuant to a CPTM President’s Decision 
(Ato do Presidente) nr. 3811 dated September 17, 2007, as amended to the date 
of this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“CPTM Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Bank and CPTM relating to the implementation of Parts A.1 and B.2 of the 
Project. 
 
9. 
“EMUs” means electrical multiple units. 
 
10. 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the Borrower’s assessment 
(Relatório Ambiental Preliminar – RAP), dated August, 2007 of the Project 
environmental impacts, which identifies the existing environmental conditions 
16
and the potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the carrying out 
of the Project, and recommends mitigation measures for each negative impact 
identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified positive impact.  
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). For the purpose of this Agreement, the terms “Co-
financier” and “Co-financing Agreement” in the General Conditions mean: 
 
(i) “Co-financier” means the lenders (as defined in the Co-financing 
Agreement) and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC); and 
 
(ii) “Co-financing Agreement” means the loan agreement intended to be 
entered into between the Borrower and several banks and other financial 
institutions, as lenders, Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), as 
guarantor, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as facility agent and 
collection agent, providing for an amount in Japanese Yens equivalent to US$ of 
535,000,000 (five hundred thirty five million Dollars), for the purpose of 
contributing to the financing of the Project. 
 
12. 
“Indicators” means the impact, performance and implementation indicators 
agreed with the Bank and set forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith, 
as such letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
13. 
“OCC” means the operations control center either for the CPTM network or for 
the SP Metro network. 
 
14. 
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 53.033, dated 
May 28, 2008, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“PITU” means Plano Integrado de Transportes Urbanos, the integrated urban 
transport plan for the SPMR, a plan that integrates urban transport, land use and 
air quality.   
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 5, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“Project Implementing Entities” means collectively CPTM and SP METRO.  
17
19. 
“SP METRO” means Companhia do Metropolitano de São Paulo - METRÔ, the 
Borrower’s metropolitan subway transportation company. 
 
20. 
“SP METRO Project Agreement” means the agreement of even data between the 
Bank and SP METRO relating to the implementation of Part A.2. and B.3. of the 
Project. 
 
21. 
“SP METRO PMU” means the unit referred to in Section I.A. of the Schedule to 
the SP METRO Project Agreement, established pursuant SP Metro President’s 
Decision (Ato do Presidente) no. 157/2003 dated October 10, 2003, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“SPMR” means São Paulo metropolitan region, an area comprising the following 
municipalities of the Borrower: Arujá, Barueri, Biritiba-Mirim, Cajamar, 
Caieiras, Carapicuiba, Cotia, Diadema, Embú, Embú-Guaçu, Ferraz de 
Vasconcelos, Francisco Morato, Franco da Rocha, Guararema, Guarulhos, 
Itapevi, Itaquaquecetuba, Itapecerica da Serra, Jandira, Juquitiba, Mairiporã, 
Mauá, Mogi das Cruzes, Osasco, Pirapora do Bom Jesus, Poá, Ribeirão Pires, 
Rio Grande da Serra, Salesópolis, Santa Isabel, Santana do Parnaíba, Santo 
André, São Bernardo do Campo, São Caetano do Sul, São Lourenço da Serra, 
São Paulo, Suzano, Taboão da Serra and Vargem Grande Paulista. 
 
23. 
“STMSP” means Secretaria dos Transportes Metropolitanos do Estado de São 
Paulo, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Metropolitan Transport. 
 
24. 
“Secretário de Transportes Metropolitanos” means the Secretary of STMSP.
25. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” (Convênio) means the agreement referred to in Section 
I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
