CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7510-YF 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Delivery of Improved Local Services Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 11, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7510-YF 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 11, 2008, between the REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (the 
“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN  
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty two million Euros  
(EUR 32,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with     
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one         
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
- 2 -
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the    
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - THE PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the MOE, the MOH and 
the MOLSP in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall have established the Project Policy Board referred to 
in paragraph A.1, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement with a 
composition and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall have: (i) established the FSU under terms of 
reference and with staff satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) appointed the 
manager of the FSU and the three (3) Project administrators referred to, 
respectively, in paragraphs A.4 and A.2, Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, all of them with qualifications and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through the Project Policy Board, shall have adopted the 
Project Operational and Grants Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred fifty (150) days after the date 
of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
20 Kneza Milosa St. 
11000 Belgrade 
Republic of Serbia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(38-11) 3618-914 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 4 -
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
 
By /s/ Mirko Cvetkovi� 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the capacity of institutional actors and 
Beneficiaries in order to improve access to and the efficiency, equity and quality of local 
delivery of health, education and social protection services, in a decentralizing 
environment. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Making Fiscal Decentralization Work
Development of a public financing framework that increases efficiency while 
compensating for inequities across municipalities, and promote the process of 
rationalization of the service network at the local level, through the implementation of the 
Law on Local Self Government Finance by means of investments in goods, technical 
assistance and Training as follows: 
 
(a) 
Development of new “funds-follow-the-user” formulae and a financing 
framework with the Borrower’s line ministries and its Commission for local self 
government finance, including “compensating weights” to correct inequities across 
municipalities so funds are allocated to municipalities in a transparent, rational and 
predictable way consistent with their new service delivery responsibilities.  
 
(b) 
Provision of Training for all sector actors at the State, LSG and service 
provider levels in application of the new financing framework, including provision of 
Training to LSGs and service providers in order to strengthen their ability to use the 
money they receive from various sources to improve the quality and efficiency of service 
delivery. 
 
Part 2: Improving Outreach and Access Through Development 
 
and Expansion of Innovations in Service Delivery         
Provision of goods, technical assistance, Training and financing of Grants to 
Beneficiaries to strengthen their ability in identifying new approaches and models for 
delivering services, and including the following: 
 
(a) 
Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries to develop outreach services to 
excluded groups (such as Roma, internally displaced persons and refugees).   
 
(b) 
Reform the financing and delivery of services for disabled people, 
including: (i) provision of technical assistance to MOLSP, de-concentrated centers for 
social work and local authorities in LSGs responsible for social services to disabled 
people; (ii) provision of technical assistance to review the operational structure of, and 
- 6 -
reform the Disability Fund with a view to adopting a competitive project-based financing 
mechanism, and financing Grants for entities referred to in (i) to bridge the transition 
from incremental to said project-based financing mechanism; and (iii) carrying out 
rigorous impact evaluation of activities supported by said Fund. 
 
(c) 
Expand LSGs’ capacity to address the specific needs of excluded 
vulnerable groups, including the capacity to identify and implement alternative service 
delivery arrangements and collaborative approaches. 
 
(d) 
Improve knowledge and establish institutions to safeguard citizens’ 
rights, including the development of information material and safeguard institutions and 
mechanisms as required therefor. 
 
Part 3: Supporting a New Regulatory, Oversight and Quality-Assurance Role 
for the Borrower’s Ministries                                                                
Support for the institutional shift from direct provision to a new regulatory, 
oversight and quality assurance role for the Borrower’s ministries, through capacity 
building measures, including staff training, the development of new protocols and tools 
for monitoring and evaluation, encompassing the provision of Training, technical 
assistance and goods for the following: 
(a) 
Development and support of the Training required for the Borrower’s 
ministries to shift to a regulatory, oversight and quality assurance role, development, 
through consultation with stakeholders, of appropriate regulatory frameworks across a 
number of areas (such as standards for pre-schools and training providers), and 
preparation and publication of reports of service delivery at the State, LSG and service 
provider levels. 
 
(b) 
Definition of regulations and standards for local service delivery,
including the specification of the new roles and responsibilities of municipal staff and 
service providers in a decentralized system. 
 
(c) 
Development of mechanisms to reinforce the Borrower’s capacity in 
ensuring quality improvements to service delivery, through: (i) piloting, monitoring, 
impact evaluation and performance analysis to ensure the effectiveness of specific Project 
investments and to support evidence-based decision making and accountability, including 
the provision of Grants to local service providers undertaking these monitoring and 
evaluation activities; (ii) conducting impact evaluations and surveys of decentralization in 
the education, health and social protection sectors; and (iii) strengthening the 
accountability system in the education sector so as to enable the Borrower to participate 
in international assessments of student performance, conduct research on student and 
school performance, and carry out external evaluation of schools. 
 
- 7 -
(d) 
Provision of Grants to carry out minor civil works for the renovation of 
primary health care centers. 
 
Part 4: Improving Capacity of LSGs and Other Local Public Institutions as Service 
Providers
Carrying out of a program to ensure that staff in both the LSGs and other local 
service providers have the information and communication technology tools, knowledge 
and skills required to make decisions in management, strategic planning, needs 
assessment and budgeting, service delivery and monitoring and evaluation, and provision 
of investments needed to improve: (i) connectivity of local service providers (primary 
health care centers, schools and decentralized centers for social work) to the internet and 
national data networks; and (ii) information and communication technology, through the 
provision of technical assistance, goods, Training, and Grants to schools, primary health 
care centers and municipalities as follows: 
 
(a) 
Creation of mechanisms to foster and assure quality, including 
developing systems of accreditation, licensing and accountability to enable line ministries 
and municipalities to monitor service delivery, and to ensure compliance with procedures 
and standards as well as accountability in management and service delivery. 
 
(b) 
Support to capacity building tailored to LSG needs, consisting of the 
development and delivery of Training programs to build competences required for 
delivery of the services being decentralized, with a view to enhancing transparency and 
good governance at the LSG level. 
 
(c) 
Support for MOE-supported grant mechanisms aiming at promoting 
locally-inspired quality improvements, through the financing of Grants to schools, LSGs 
and education service providers, and the provision of technical assistance to regional 
school administrations to further enhance their capacity to work with schools on their 
SDPs.  
 
(d) 
Improvement in the use of information, statistics and Information 
Communications Technology (ICT), through the coordination of existing ICT strategies 
in each of the education, health and social protection sectors and the design of a 
mechanism to enable existing data bases to share data in real time and adding new data as 
future needs arise, and provision of technical assistance on the legal and privacy aspects 
of administrative use of information on citizens with a view to ensure compliance with 
EU information and privacy standards. 
 
(e) 
Provision of Grants to carry out minor civil works for the renovation of 
schools. 
- 8 -
Part 5: Support for Project Implementation
Provision of technical assistance, Training and goods to the Fiduciary Services 
Unit and to the Borrower’s Project administration teams (PATs) responsible for Project 
implementation in the line ministries, including the preparation of the audit referred to in 
paragraph C.3, Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 9 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements and Implementation Covenants 
 
1. 
Project Policy Board
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, a body 
composed of all the stakeholder ministries (MOE, MOH and MOLSP), the Ministry of 
Finance, the Ministry of Public Administration and Local Self Government, and one 
representative of LSGs to provide Project policy guidance and strategic coordination.  
The Project Policy Board shall be responsible for the Project, acting as a forum to guide 
activities, particularly those of a cross-ministerial nature, resolve disputes and make 
decisions on any necessary changes to the Project as the need arises.  For such purposes, 
the Project Policy Board shall meet on a regular basis to report on Project activities and 
progress toward delivery of Project outputs and the achievement of development 
outcomes. 
 
2. 
Implementing Staff in each Line Ministry
Day-to-day implementation of the Project shall be the responsibility of the 
concerned line ministry as set forth in the Project staffing plan for each ministry, which 
shall appoint a full-time Project administrator and the staff (including permanent civil 
servants) who shall be responsible for the individual activities which shall form part of 
their respective staff job descriptions.  The said staff shall provide technical sector 
knowledge and specifications to the FSU for investments financed by the Project, while 
the relevant line ministry shall provide authorization to the FSU to make payments 
thereof. 
 
3. 
Project Implementation Committee
The PIC shall consist of the Project administrators of each of the line ministries 
as well as the manager of the FSU.  The PIC shall meet on a weekly basis, throughout 
Project implementation to coordinate the activities under the Project. 
 
4. 
The Fiduciary Services Unit
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain a joint FSU with the MOE, the MOH and 
the MOLSP, throughout Project implementation, headed by a manager and adequately 
staffed and with sufficient resources to enable it to carry out its functions with due 
diligence and efficiency and in a timely manner.  The Borrower, through the FSU, shall 
centralize and maintain Project records, coordinate activities, manage procurement and 
- 10 -
the selection of consultants and consolidate financial information for the different Project 
activities to be implemented by, respectively, the MOE, the MOH and the MOLSP.  The 
manager of the FSU shall call an extraordinary meeting of the Project Policy Board if the 
PIC is unable to take a decision regarding the Project at two (2) successive meetings. 
 
(b) 
Until the Bank shall have been satisfied that the FSU is fully operational 
and trained to carry out its fiduciary responsibilities under the Project, the Borrower, 
through the MOH, shall ensure that the PCU carry out such fiduciary responsibilities in 
the interim. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the FSU, the MOE, the MOH and the 
MOLSP to:  
(a) 
duly perform all obligations under the Project Operational and Grants 
Manual and ensure that all measures necessary for the proper carrying out of the EMP are 
taken, all in a timely manner and in accordance with their respective terms, and apply and 
implement, as the case may be, the actions, criteria, policies, procedures and 
arrangements therein set forth; and 
(b) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived the Project 
Operational and Grants Manual or the EMP or any provisions of any one thereof, except 
with the prior written approval of the Bank. 
B. 
Grants under the Project 
 
1. 
The mechanism for making available the Grants under the Project shall be 
coordinated and monitored by, respectively, the MOLSP, the MOE and the MOH for 
Grants made to Beneficiaries under their respective competence, with the proceeds of the 
Loan to finance said Grants flowing directly to the Beneficiaries. To those ends, the 
MOLSP, the MOE and the MOH shall follow and apply at all times the relevant 
provisions of the Project Operational and Grants Manual and the EMP.  
 
2. 
Procedures and Conditions for Approval of Grants
(a) 
The MOE, the MOH and the MOLSP shall each, as appropriate: (i) 
perform the evaluation of the respective Grant application; (ii) decide on which Grants 
shall receive Loan financing; and (iii) approve Grants for disbursement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that, in making 
the Grants available, the MOE, the MOH and the MOLSP, when and as appropriate, shall 
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and those of the Bank, 
including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant 
then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement; and (ii) require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the activities for 
- 11 -
which the Grant was given with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards and 
practices satisfactory to the Bank and under the terms and conditions stipulated in the 
Project Operational and Grants Manual and the EMP; (B) provide, promptly as needed, 
the resources required for the purpose of the Grant; (C) procure the goods, works and 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the provisions 
of this Agreement; (D) upon reasonable request, enable the Borrower and the Bank to 
inspect the activities, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (E) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or 
the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the MOE, 
the MOH and the MOLSP, when and as appropriate, exercise their respective rights 
under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Parts 3(d) and 4(e) of the Project, no Grant under Category 4 of 
the table set forth in Part A.2, Section IV of this Schedule shall be made unless the 
Borrower shall have first, prior to the commencement of renovation works for each 
proposed site: (a) submitted to the Bank for its approval the proposed site for said works 
and the related site-specific EMP, said site-specific EMP to be in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) submitted to the Bank for its approval the proposed 
contract for activities to be financed by said Grant to ensure that the provisions of said 
site-specific EMP are adequately included in said contract.  
 
C. 
Project Operational and Grants Manual 
 
The Borrower, through the MOE, the MOH and the MOLSP, as the case may be, 
shall: (i) take all action required to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions 
and requirements set forth or referred to in the Project Operational and Grants Manual; 
(ii) submit recommendations to the Bank for its consideration for changes and updates of 
the Project Operational and Grants Manual as they may become necessary or advisable 
during Project implementation in order to better achieve the Project objectives; and (iii) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project Operational and Grants Manual or any 
of its provisions without the Bank’s prior agreement. 
 
D. 
Training under the Project 
For purposes of Training to be carried out under the Project, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, the content of each such Training, 
including an explanation on how such Training is consistent and conducive to the 
objectives of the Project and whether it offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as the 
schedule for its implementation; 
 
- 12 -
(b) 
select the trainees in accordance with a transparent process and criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the Training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and 
 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each Training and the benefits to be derived 
therefrom. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and, through 
the Project Implementation Committee, prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions, on the basis of the Performance and 
Monitoring Indicators and including adequate information on the carrying out of the 
measures set forth in the EMP. Each Project Report shall cover a six (6) month period, 
and shall, upon clearance by the Project Policy Board, be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Mid-Term Review 
 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance and Monitoring 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, twenty-three (23) months after the Effective Date, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date 
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in the preceding 
paragraph (b) and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
- 13 -
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
C. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. The Borrower shall ensure that the scope of each 
said audit includes a performance review, at least on a sample basis, of the delivery of 
Project outputs. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services). All goods, 
works and services (other than Consultants’ Services) required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
- 14 -
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other 
than Consultants’ Services)  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services (other than Consultants’ Services) shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services).  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other 
than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
services (other than Consultants’ Services). The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method for Goods 
 
(a) 
Shopping 
 
(b) 
Direct Contracting 
 
Procurement Method for Works 
 
National Competitive Bidding for Works, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 
(1) 
Registration 
 
(a) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
 
(b) 
where registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a 
reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (ii) 
shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, 
which shall be verified through post-qualification; and 
 
(c) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a 
registration process is required, a foreign bidder declared the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
to register. 
 
- 15 -
Procurement Method for Works 
 
(2) 
Advertising 
 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids. 
 
(3) 
Pre-qualification 
 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations 
to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission 
of pre-qualification applications.  Minimum experience, and technical and financial 
requirements, shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(4) 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises 
 
Government-owned enterprises in the country shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting 
authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
 
(5) 
Bidding Documents 
 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods, works or services, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(6) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
 
(a) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents; and 
 
(c) 
contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having 
submitted the lowest-evaluated, substantially responsive bid and 
no negotiation shall take place. 
 
- 16 -
Procurement Method for Works 
 
(7) 
Price Adjustment 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than eighteen (18) months) shall 
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
(8) 
Rejection of Bids 
 
(a) 
all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence; and 
 
(b) 
when the number of bids received is less than three, re-bidding 
shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
ECA Regional Sample Bidding Documents, modified as acceptable to the Bank, 
shall be used. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) 
Selection under a Fixed-Budget 
 
(b) 
Least-Cost Selection 
 
(c) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(d) 
Single Source Selection 
 
(e) 
Individual Consultants 
 
- 17 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, Training and Operating 
 
Expenses 
 
17,220,000 
 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ services, including 
 
the preparation of the audit  
 
under Part 5 of the Project 
 
4,500,000 
 
100% 
(3) Grants (other than Grants for 
 
civil works under Parts 3(d) 
 
and 4(e) of the Project) 
 
8,200,000 
 
100% 
(4) Grants for civil works under 
 
Parts 3(d) and 4(e) of the 
 
Project 
 
2,000,000 
 
100% 
- 18 -
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(5) Front-end Fee 
 
80,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(6) Premia for Interest Rate Caps  
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
32,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2013  
 
through November 15, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
- 20 -
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
- 21 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Beneficiary” means a physical or legal person (including a LSG (as hereinafter 
defined), a non-government service provider, a primary health care center, a 
school or a center for social work qualified to receive a Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) under the Project Operational and Grants Manual (as hereinafter 
defined), and “Beneficiaries” means more than one Beneficiary.  
 
2. 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“Disability Fund” means the grant facility established by the Borrower pursuant 
to the provisions of its Law on Lottery Games, published in its Official Gazette 
No. 84/04, administered by MOLSP (as hereinafter defined) with the aim of 
financing social services extended by non-government organizations to disabled 
people. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated February 20, 2008, 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, describing 
the environmental, social and cultural resources procedures and mitigation and 
monitoring measures required for the Project, including the measures and 
information required for the preparation of site-specific EMPs referred to in 
paragraph B.3, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“EU” means the European Union. 
 
7. 
“Fiduciary Services Unit” and FSU” mean the Fiduciary Services Unit jointly 
established by the MOE, the MOH and the MOLSP pursuant to Section 4.01 
(b)(i) of this Agreement, coordinating activities and centralizing the financial 
management, procurement and reporting functions under the Project. 
 
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
- 22 -
10. 
“Grant” means a Grant made or proposed to be made by the MOLSP, the MOH 
or the MOE, as the case may be, to a Beneficiary under Parts 2(a) and (b), 3(c), 
3(d),  4 (c) and 4 (e) of the Project. 
 
11. 
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement between the MOLSP, the MOH or the 
MOE, as the case may be, and a Beneficiary for the purposes of providing a 
Grant. 
 
12. 
“Law on Local Self Government Finance” means the Borrower’s Law on local 
self government finance, published in its Official Gazette No. 62/06. 
 
13. 
“LSG” means a local self government, i.e., a municipal government authority. 
 
14. 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, or any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health or any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“MOLSP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, or any 
successor thereto. 
17. 
“Operating Expenses” means the expenses incurred by the FSU and the line 
ministries to finance the cost of communications, translations, meetings, local 
travel, consumables and day-to-day office maintenance and administration, 
including operation and maintenance of equipment provided to the FSU and the 
line ministries under the Project, and excluding salaries of government officials 
and civil servants. 
 
18. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established within the MOH under 
the Development Credit Agreement (Serbia Health Project, Credit No. 3768-YF) 
between Serbia and Montenegro and the International Development Association 
dated June 13, 2003, pursuant to the MOH’s decision No. 500-01-138/2003-02, 
dated March 27, 2003. 
 
19. 
“Performance and Monitoring Indicators” means the agreed performance and 
monitoring indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by 
the Borrower under the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of 
the Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 30, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
- 23 -
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
22. 
“Project Implementation Committee” and “PIC” mean the group of staff 
responsible for Project implementation, consisting of the Project administrators 
from the MOE, MOH and MOLSP and the manager of the FSU. 
 
23. 
“Project Operational and Grants Manual” means the Manual adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement, for the purposes of 
defining the detailed implementation arrangements of the Project, and setting 
forth, inter alia: (a) the detailed Project staffing plan for each stakeholder 
ministry; and (b) the modalities, terms and conditions for the provision of Grants, 
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank.  
 
24. 
“Project Policy Board” means the group established under the Project pursuant to 
Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, for the purposes of providing policy guidance 
and strategic coordination among the different Project stakeholder ministries, and 
composed of representatives at the ministerial level (or the ministers’ respective 
designee) and one representative of the LSG. 
 
25. 
“SDP” means a School Development Plan required under the provisions of the 
Borrower’s Law on “Basis of the Education System”, published in its Official 
Gazette Nos. 62/03, 64/03, 58/04, 62/04, 79/05 and 101/05. 
 
26. 
“Training” means all training and training-related activities to be carried out 
under the Project including workshops, seminars and study tours, which are not 
included under goods and service providers’ contracts, and covering expenditures 
incurred in connection with fees, travel costs and per-diem allowances for the 
trainers and travel costs and per-diem allowances for the trainees, cost of training 
materials, space and equipment rental, and other related expenditures; all such 
expenditures to be based on plans (including budgets and terms of reference) to 
be adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 3.01 shall read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end 
fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”).” 
- 24 -
2. 
A new paragraph (d) is included in Section 3.02 Interest which shall read as 
follows: 
“(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the Default 
Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan 
Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a 
result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default 
Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be 
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.” 
3.  
Appendix “Definitions” is amended as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 19 “Commitment Charge”
is deleted, and subsequent 
paragraphs are re-numbered accordingly. 
(b) 
New paragraphs 27, 28, 29 and 30 are added to the Appendix:
“27. 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount 
remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall 
commence on the 31st day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, 
and the final such Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is 
fully paid.” 
“28. 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default Interest Rate 
applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately prior to the application of the 
Default Interest Rate:  Default LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one 
percent (0.5%).” 
“29. 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
- 25 -
3.02 first becomes overdue. 
“30. 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable 
Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
(c) 
Paragraph 43 “Fixed Spread” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“43. 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan 
Currency in effect at 12:0 1 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the 
Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided 
further that notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest 
is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
(d) 
Paragraph 56 “LIBOR Reset Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read 
as follows: 
“56. 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means: (a) for any Loan Currency other than Euro, 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period 
(or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in 
which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two London Banking Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency 
other than Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the first 
or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day 
immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on 
the first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved 
Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date); (b) 
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest 
- 26 -
Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period for a Variable Spread Loan, the day 
two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month 
in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to Euro falls on a day other 
than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in 
which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion 
Date; provided that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such 
month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); and (c)  notwithstanding sub-paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, for a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the 
Bank determines that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR Reset Date is 
on a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be 
such other date, as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(e) 
Paragraph 66 “Loan Payment” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“66. 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not 
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, 
interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction 
fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
(f) 
Paragraph 71 “Payment Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“71. 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.” 
