CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7594-CR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT DDO) Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 10, 2008 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7594-CR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 10, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I. A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty five million Dollars ($65,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 
sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
-2- 
 
2.06 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal 
amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Bank and the Borrower may at any time agree on repayment provisions 
different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement for the then 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance provided that: (i) the average maturity of each 
Withdrawal of an amount of such Unwithdrawn Loan Balance does not exceed 
18 years from the Maturity Fixing Date and the final maturity of such 
Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from the Maturity Fixing Date (or such 
other average maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to 
loans made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) 
such repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank 
prior to the Withdrawal Date of any such Withdrawal. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Amounts of the Withdrawn Balance that have been repaid or prepaid in accordance with 
this Loan Agreement prior to the Closing Date shall be re-credited to the Loan Account 
and be made available for further withdrawal by the Borrower. In the event that any 
amount prepaid has been converted under a Currency Conversion, the amount re-credited 
to the Loan Account shall be denominated in the original Loan Currency and equal to the 
amount prior to such Conversion. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions 
of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
-3- 
 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, with the assistance of CNE,  
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation which would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation 
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will 
be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 90 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Legal Opinion referred to in Section 9.02 of the General Conditions shall be issued 
by the Borrower’s General Attorney’s Office (Procuraduría General de la República).  
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of signature of this Agreement, but in no case 
later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on 
March 16, 2010. 
 
-4- 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Edificio Central 
Avenida 2 entre Calle 1 y  3  
Diagonal al Teatro Nacional 
San José 
Costa Rica  
 
Facsimile: 
(506) 2255-4874 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-5- 
 
AGREED at Washington, D.C., United States of America and San José, Costa Rica, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA 
 
By /s/ Guillermo Zúñíga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the 
Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower has adopted the National Emergencies and Risk Prevention Law and the 
Executive Decree No. 34361 setting forth regulations to said National Emergencies and 
Risk Prevention Law. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through CNE, has complied with the provisions of Article 46 of the 
National Emergencies and Risk Prevention Law, through the collection, administration 
and transfer to the National Emergency Fund of an amount equivalent to 3% of the 
financial surplus or profit earned by all governmental institutions referred to in said 
Article 46 during the periods of January 1, 2007 to December 30, 2007 and January 1, 
2008 to August 4, 2008, to support the National Risk Management System.  
3. 
The Borrower, through MIDEPLAN, has incorporated its Disaster Risk Management in 
the Borrower’s 2006-2010 National Development Plan. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has incorporated risk management considerations as part of the screening 
process of MIDEPLAN national investment projects. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan may be withdrawn in a single tranche upon 
request by the Borrower. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the Single Tranche 
from the Loan Account in support of the Program in various Withdrawals.  The allocation 
of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
 
65,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
65,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  
 
-7- 
 
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.   
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied, based on 
evidence satisfactory to it, that a state of emergency exists in the Borrower’s territory as a 
result of a Natural Disaster. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a request 
for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a review of the 
Borrower’s progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice 
to the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be 
made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has notified the 
Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described in paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of Section 3.01, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account 
designated by the Borrower at the Central Bank (Banco Central de Costa Rica) and 
acceptable to the Bank;  
 
2.  
the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into this 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and (b) provide the Bank with a written 
confirmation within two weeks of this transaction; and  
 
3. 
any transfer of any amount of the Loan from the account referred to paragraph 1 of this 
Section shall be: (a) compatible with the manner in which the Borrower is as of the date 
of this Agreement applying its Sistema de Caja Única, regulated under articles 66 and 67 
of the Borrower’s Financial Management and Public Budget Law No. 8131; and (b) for 
said compatibility to be maintained the Borrower must apply said regime in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank.  
 
F. 
Audit. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the account designated by the Borrower pursuant to Part E. 1 of this Section audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after 
the end of the Borrower’s fiscal year, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account and its audit as the 
Bank shall reasonably request. 
-8- 
 
G. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 
H. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is October 30, 2011. 
 
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay each 
Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, 
the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th) Interest Payment Date following 
the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable 
on the fifty-ninth (59th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the 
Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-forty-
ninth (1/49) of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the 
remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.   
 
2. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each Disbursed 
Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the event 
of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
4. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency. 
-10- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CNE” means Comisión Nacional de Prevención de Riesgos y Atención de Emergencias, 
the Borrower’s National Risk Prevention and Emergency Management Commission 
established and operating pursuant to the National Emergencies and Risk Prevention 
Law. 
 
2. 
“Disaster Risk Management” means the disaster risk management process referred to in 
Article 4 of the National Emergencies and Risk Prevention Law. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
-11- 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
Executive Decree No. 34361, means the Borrower’s Executive Decree (Reglamento) 
No. 34361, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 52, on March 13, 2008, 
setting forth regulations to the National Emergencies and Risk Prevention Law, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. 
“MIDEPLAN” means Ministerio de Planificación Nacional y Política Económica, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy. 
 
7. 
“National Development Plan” means the Borrower’s national development plan for the 
period 2006-2010 set forth in Executive Decree 33151 of May 18, 2006 and Executive 
Decree 33178 of June 14, 2006. 
 
8. 
“National Emergencies and Risk Prevention Law” means the Borrower’s Law No. 8488 
for national emergencies and risk prevention, published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette No. 8 on January 11, 2006, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“National Emergencies Fund” means the fund established pursuant to article 43 of the 
National Emergencies and Risk Prevention Law. 
 
10. 
“National Risk Management System” means the system referred to in Article 6 of the 
National Emergencies and Risk Prevention Law. 
 
-12- 
 
11. 
“Natural Disaster” means any disaster caused by natural hazards included in Article 4 of 
the National Emergencies and Risk Prevention Law. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support two 
key policy areas: (i) strengthening of the Borrower's  disaster risk management 
institutional and legal framework; and (ii) mainstreaming disaster risk management in the 
National Development and Investment Programs, and set forth or referred to in the letter 
dated August 1, 2008 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution.  
 
13. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
-13- 
 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows:  
“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for the 
Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, 
on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the 
Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is applicable to an amount 
of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes 
of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or 
any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section 4.04 (a), the 
Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: (1) the 
Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) LIBOR, or other reference rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on 
the Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
-14- 
 
percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one 
Currency, “Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  
 
(f) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 
 
(g) 
A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the Bank 
pays the Withdrawal. 
 
