CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7529-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Energy Efficiency Financing Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 11, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 11, 2008, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 -
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out its Respective Parts of the Project through 
NDRC in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions 
for Grants made by the World Bank out of Various Funds, dated July 20, 2006 
(“Standard Conditions”) and the Co-financing Agreement; (ii) cause the Project 
Implementing Entities to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of 
this Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower and Exim Bank have entered into a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
     
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve energy 
efficiency of selected medium and large industrial enterprises, and to reduce their adverse 
environmental impact on climate. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Promotion of Energy Efficiency Financing  
 
1. 
Strengthen the capacity of the Project Implementing Entities in: (a) energy 
efficiency business development, including: creation of, staffing and initial 
business planning for energy conservation lending business units/teams within 
said Project Implementing Entities; (b) evaluating  and assessing the eligibility of 
Sub-projects; (c) developing energy conservation Sub-project pipeline and 
marketing energy efficiency financial products; and (d) developing energy 
conservation-related financing instruments and risk management tools.      
 
2. 
Strengthen the capacity of selected financial institutions in: energy efficiency 
business startup; energy efficiency business development; appraisal of energy 
efficiency projects; training of their staff in regulatory frameworks governing 
energy efficiency business; development of risk management tools, financing 
instruments, and hedging instruments related to energy efficiency business.  
 
3. 
Promote energy efficiency financing in the banking sector through: (a) presenting 
case studies of Sub-projects at national workshops; (b) introducing energy 
efficiency financing products and technologies to the banking sector; and (c) 
disseminating guidelines for assessing and developing energy efficiency projects 
to the banking sector.      
 
4. 
Provide technical assistance to: (a) selected financial institutions and industrial 
enterprises to support energy conservation project demonstration, including 
preparation of about two (2) pilot energy efficiency projects; and (b) NDRC to 
support the development of an assessment, supervision, and monitoring system 
for industrial energy conservation projects. 
 
Part B:  Energy Efficiency Sub-projects  
 
Provide Sub-loans to Sub-loan Beneficiaries for carrying out energy efficiency 
Sub-projects.   
 
- 6 -
Part C: National Policy Support and Capacity Building  
 
1. 
Provide technical assistance and operational support to NDRC in setting up the 
National Energy Conservation Center and supporting said Center’s business 
start-up and strategic business planning.   
 
2. 
Support the implementation of the Borrower’s priority energy conservation 
programs set out in its 11th five-year plan, through: (a) conducting a mid-term 
review for the implementation of such energy conservation programs; and (b) 
undertaking studies to address issues that arise from such review and recommend 
international best practices for implementation of said national priority energy 
conservation  programs.  
Part D: Project Management, Monitoring and Supervision 
 
1. 
Provide technical assistance and operational support to the Project Management 
Office in respect of Project implementation, monitoring, and supervision and 
reporting. 
 
2. 
Provide technical assistance to support independent verification of energy 
conservation lending volume and energy saving performance of Sub-projects 
under Part B of the Project.   
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
Institutional Arrangements   
 
1. 
For purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower through NDRC shall: 
 
(a) 
establish 
and 
thereafter 
maintain 
throughout 
the 
period 
of 
implementation of the Project,  a Project Steering Committee, with terms 
of reference, composition, and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to 
be responsible for providing overall strategic and policy guidance for 
Project implementation; and   
 
(b) 
establish and thereafter maintain a Project Management Office, with 
terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, 
to be responsible for the overall coordination, monitoring, supervision, 
and reporting for the Project and for implementing Parts A (except for 
Part A.1),  C and D of  the Project.  
 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
 
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project by Exim Bank, the 
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Exim Bank under a 
subsidiary loan agreement (Subsidiary Loan Agreement) between the Borrower 
and Exim Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
the following principal terms and conditions:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Exim Bank shall utilize the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with this 
Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
- 8 -
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex A of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.   Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than two (2) 
months after the end of the period covered by such calendar year.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions in paragraph A.1 of this Section II above, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank on or about December 31, 2010, a mid-term report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding such report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank by February 28, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the mid-term report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) 
above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank not later 
than two (2) months after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
- 9 -
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions, and each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods manufactured in 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
2. 
Other Method of Procurement of Goods.
The following table specifies the 
method of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Operational Manual prepared by each of the Project 
Implementing Entities shall specify the circumstances under which such method 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method: 
(a)  Procurement in Loans to Financial Intermediaries 
- 10 -
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
All ICB contracts for goods shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review, 
regardless of their contract value.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to the Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in the Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1)  Sub-loans  under Part B 
of the Project to be 
provided by Exim Bank 
100,000,000 
100% of Sub-loan  
amount disbursed 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; and  
- 11 -
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
Beginning September 15, 2013  
through March 15, 2038 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
- 13 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
- 14 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Category” means the category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
“Co-financier” means the Global Environment Facility. 
 
(c) 
“Co-financing” means an amount of thirteen million five hundred thousand 
Dollars ($13,500,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in the 
financing of Parts A, C, and D of the Project. 
 
(d) 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
People’s Republic of China and the Bank providing for the Co-financing. 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Assessment Framework” means the Environmental Assessment 
Framework dated May 21, 2007, adopted by Exim Bank, which sets forth 
policies and procedures for the preliminary screening of proposed Sub-projects, 
and for the preparation of environmental assessment and environment 
management plans therefor during the implementation of the Project, as said 
framework may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the 
Bank. 
 
(f) 
“The Export- Import Bank of China” and the acronym “Exim Bank” mean the 
state-owned bank established in 1994 pursuant to the State Council Document 
No. 20 of 1994, responsible for, among others, financing of export and import 
within the Borrower’s priority sectors, and providing credit to support the 
development of the Borrower’s priority sectors, and any successor thereto. 
 
(g) 
“Financial Management Manuals” means, collectively: (i) the financial 
management manuals applicable to the Loans and the GEF Grant, each dated 
November 21, 2007, adopted by the Project Implementing Entities and referred 
to in paragraph 2(b) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and 
(ii) the financial management manual applicable to the GEF Grant to be adopted 
by NDRC and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I of Schedule 2 to the  
Co-financing Agreement, as such Manuals may be amended from time to time 
with the prior approval by the Bank; and “Financial Management Manual” means 
either of the Financial Management Manuals. 
 
(h) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
- 15 -
(i) 
“Hua Xia Bank Co., Limited” and the acronym “Hua Xia Bank” mean the 
commercial bank established in 1992 pursuant to the Bank of China Document 
No. 321 of 1992; and converted as a shareholding limited company according to 
the Borrower’s Company Law in 1996 and operating pursuant to its Articles of 
Association 
dated 
November 
17, 
2005, 
and 
to 
Business 
License  
No. 1000001002967 dated December 11, 2007, issued by the State Industry and 
Commerce Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
(j) 
“NDRC” means the Borrower’s National Development and Reform Commission, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
(k) 
“Operational Manuals” means the manuals, each dated November 21, 2007, 
adopted by the Project Implementing Entities and referred to in paragraph 2(a) of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as such Manuals may be 
amended from time to time with the prior approval by the Bank; and 
“Operational Manual” means either of the Operations Manuals. 
 
(l) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
(m) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entities of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
(n) 
“Project Implementing Entities” and the acronym “PIEs” mean collectively, the 
Exim Bank and Hua Xia Bank, and any successors thereto; and “Project 
Implementing Entity” means either of the Project Implementing Entities. 
(o) 
“Project Management Office” means the China Energy Efficiency Financing 
Project Management Office referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Section I of  
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
(p) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 1(a) 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(q) 
“Project Team” means the project team of each of the PIEs referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
(r) 
“Renminbi” and the acronym “RMB” mean the currency of the Borrower. 
 
(s) 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of: (i) NDRC, Parts A (except 
for Part A.1), C and D of the Project; (ii) Exim Bank, Parts A.1 and B of the 
Project to be implemented by Exim Bank; and (iii) Hua Xia Bank, Parts A.1 and 
B of the Project to be implemented by Hua Xia Bank.  
- 16 -
(t) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and a Project Implementing Entity pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and supplements to said 
agreement. 
 
(u) 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made by a Project Implementing Entity to a Sub-loan 
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan for the financing and carrying out of 
a Sub-project under Part B of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project 
Agreement, its Operational Manual and Financial Management Manual; and the 
term “Sub-loans” means, collectively, all such Sub-loans. 
 
(v) 
“Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a Project 
Implementing Entity and a Sub-loan Beneficiary for purposes of providing a 
Sub-loan pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “Sub-loan Agreements” means, collectively, all of 
said Sub-loan Agreements. 
 
(w) 
“Sub-loan Beneficiary” means a medium or large industrial enterprise, or an 
energy service company (ESCO), established and operating pursuant to the 
relevant laws of the Borrower eligible to carry out a Sub-project pursuant to the 
Operational Manual prepared by each of the Project Implementing Entities; and 
the term “Sub-loan Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such Sub-loan 
Beneficiaries. 
 
(x) 
“Sub-project” means an energy efficiency investment project under Part B of the 
Project to be carried out by a Sub-loan Beneficiary, using financing from the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual prepared by each of the Project Implementing Entities and the relevant 
provisions in the Project Agreement; and the term “Sub-projects” means, 
collectively, all such Sub-projects.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Loans of the Bank, dated July 1, 2005 
(as amended through February 12, 2008) are as follows: 
 
1. 
The first paragraph under Section 7.02 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank 
 
If any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this Section occurs 
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole 
- 17 -
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account. 
Such suspension shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to the 
suspension has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan 
Parties that such right to make withdrawals has been restored.” 
 
2. 
Paragraphs (c) and (l) under Section 7.02 are deleted in their entirety and 
paragraphs (d) through (m) under Section 7.02 are re-numbered accordingly. 
 
3. 
Paragraph (c) under Section 7.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
 Fraud; Corruption; Collusion; Coercion. At any time, the Bank: (i) 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount of 
expenditures under such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.” 
 
4. 
Paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) under Section 7.06 are modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Co-financing. The event specified in sub-paragraph (g)(ii)(B) of  
Section 7.02 has occurred, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g)(iii) of that 
Section. 
 
(d) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. Any event specified in 
paragraph (h) of Section 7.02 has occurred. 
 
(e) 
Condition of Borrower or Project Implementing Entity. Any event 
specified in sub-paragraph (j)(ii), (j)(iii), (j)(iv) or (j)(v) of Section 7.02 has 
occurred.” 
 
5. 
Paragraphs 3, 15, 16, 17, 18 under Appendix (Definitions) are modified to read 
as follows:  
 
“3. 
“Additional Event of Suspension” means any event of suspension 
specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 7.02(k).” 
 
“15. 
“Co-financier” means the financier (other than the Bank or the 
Association) referred to in Section 7.02(g) providing the Co-financing. If the 
Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financier, “Co-financier” refers 
separately to each of such financiers.” 
 
- 18 -
“16. 
“Co-financing” means the financing referred to in Section 7.02(g) and 
specified in the Loan Agreement provided or to be provided for the Project by the 
Co-financier. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financing, 
“Co-financing” refers separately to each of such financings.” 
 
“17. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to in  
Section 7.02(g) providing for the Co-financing.” 
 
“18. 
“Co-financing Deadline” means the date referred to in Section 7.02(g)(i) 
and specified in the Loan Agreement by which the Co-financing Agreement is to 
become effective. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such date, “Co-
financing Deadline” refers separately to each of such dates.” 
 
