CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7499-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rio Grande do Sul Integrated Municipal Development Program 
Integrated Municipal Infrastructure Project - Pelotas Polo do Sul)
between 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF PELOTAS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 26, 2008  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7499-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 26, 2008, between MUNICIPALITY OF PELOTAS 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in (b) below, the General Conditions (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1.01. (a) of this Agreement, Articles 
III and IV of the “General Conditions for Loans” of the Bank dated July 1, 2005 (as 
amended through October 17, 2007) (the 2007 General Conditions), as well as the 
definitions set forth in the Appendix of the 2007 General Conditions of the terms used in 
said Articles III and IV, constitute an integral part of this Agreement with respect to 
Article II and Schedule 3 of this Agreement.  
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of eighteen million nine hundred thousand Dollars 
($18,900,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 2007 General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
-2- 
 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the 2007 General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection of the 
Guarantor and through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National Treasury, request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Secretariat of 
Coordination and Planning, with the assistance of SANEP in respect of Part III.3 of the 
Project, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
-3- 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
(a) 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(i) 
The SANEP’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
SANEP to perform any of its obligations under the SANEP Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
SANEP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
SANEP Agreement. 
 
(b) 
However, in respect to sub-paragraph (a) of this Section, the Bank may only 
suspend in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect of category 2(b) set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that the 
Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Loan has been 
registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on July 15, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
601. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Mayor.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Prefeitura Municipal de Pelotas 
Praça Coronel Pedro Osório, 101 
96015-010 – Pelotas, RS, Brazil 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
(55-53) 3227-2061 
 
-4- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Brasilia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF PELOTAS 
 
By /s/ Adolfo Antonio Fetter Junior 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of the Borrower to provide 
selected infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population. 
 
The Project constitutes a part of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I: Municipal Strengthening
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to more effectively and efficiently execute its 
programs, respond to demand for the provision of water, sanitation and other public services, and 
implement and mainstream the appraisal, fiduciary and environmental and social procedures of 
the PDMI including, inter alia:
1. 
Public Service Modernization
(a) 
Transformation of a municipal owned building into a new administrative center 
for the Borrower, including provision of equipment and training of staff in 
information management. 
 
(b) 
Installation of energy efficient automated drainage pumps to reduce electricity 
consumption of the municipal government. 
 
(c) 
Preparation of a master plan for drainage, water and sanitation, implementation 
of a municipal geographical information system, acquisition of approximately 24 
vehicles for the Borrower, completion of works for the Borrower’s new 
administrative center and provision of training and technical assistance to the 
Borrower’s staff on topics related to municipal management and Project 
implementation. 
 
2. 
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, operating costs and equipment as required for the UGP 
and UAP, when applicable, to carry out the dissemination, training, appraisal, fiduciary, 
environmental, monitoring, reporting and social requirements of the PDMI and the Project. 
 
Part II: Employment and Income Generation
1. 
Strategies, Cluster Support and Access to Micro-Credit
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to generate employment and income through 
facilitating micro and small business access to micro-credit and improvement of the effectiveness 
of such business including, inter alia:
-6- 
 
(a) 
Carrying out of studies to identify local growth potential and prepare a LED 
strategy for the Borrower including identification of administrative barriers for 
business development and implementation of such strategy. 
 
(b) 
Training to SMEs’ staff on formalization of business activities, business 
management, marketing and Cluster organization, including implementation of 
marketing events. 
 
(c) 
Renovation of a commercial facility and nearly public park (Praça Cipriano 
Barcelos) to allow for the relocation of about 200 vendors to reduce labor 
informality. 
 
(d) 
Carrying out of productive activities of the agro-industrial sector including, inter 
alia, construction of a packing-house, organization and training of farmers and 
creation of a brand name associated to quality and origin of products. 
 
2. 
Technology Park
(a) 
Creation of a technology park for private and academic sectors to foster 
innovative and applied research, new product development, and business support 
programs. 
 
(b) 
Setting up of centers for digital inclusion connecting key locations in Pelotas, 
including connecting the Borrower’s agencies. 
 
Part III: Infrastructure Service Improvements
Carrying out of activities aimed to improve road, drainage and water and sanitation 
services including, inter alia:
1. 
 Urban and Road Upgrading
(a) 
Renovation of selected historic buildings. 
 
(b) 
Construction of about 50 bays for bus stops and about 10 pedestrian crossings. 
 
(c) 
Rehabilitation of about 7,000 m² of streets and paving of São Paulo Street in 
Pelotas. 
 
(d) 
Recovery of green space in the downtown area, paving and/or rehabilitation of 
streets and important access corridors, including pedestrian and bicycle 
infrastructure and landscaping. 
 
2.  
 Rehabilitation of Rural Road Infrastructure:
(a) 
Acquisition of about 10 trucks and 6 construction vehicles. 
 
(b) 
Replacement, rehabilitation and expansion of bridges and maintenance of the 
core rural road network.  
-7- 
 
3. 
Water and Sanitation Improvements
(a) 
Construction of a water main to connect Arroio Pelotas with Sinott Station. 
 
(b)  
Implementation of a new automated urban drainage system. 
 
(c) 
Construction of a waste water treatment facility and expansion of the Borrower’s 
water supply system network in rural areas. 
 
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain a project coordination unit (UGP) within its Secretariat of Coordination 
and Planning with the powers and responsibilities set forth in the Operational 
Manual; and  
(b) 
no later than two months from the Effective Date have such unit fully staffed 
with personnel with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the following key staff: a coordinator and experts to handle the 
technical, procurement, financial management and safeguard aspects of the 
Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, together with the other Participating Municipalities and until 
completion of the Project, maintain the Superior Council and Technical Council with the 
structures, powers and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual. 
3. 
The Borrower shall establish, together with at least two other Participating Municipalities 
a unit of inter-municipal coordination (UAP) with powers and responsibilities set forth in 
the Operational Manual. This unit shall be established not later than such date as the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower that at least three of the loan agreements between the 
Bank and Participating Municipalities have been entered into and become effective, for 
purposes of the financing of part of the costs of implementing the PDMI in the respective 
Participating Municipalities. 
B. 
Inter-Institutional Agreements 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, 
waive or fail to enforce the PDMI Inter-Municipal Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall  enter into an agreement with SANEP, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth the respective responsibilities of 
the Borrower and SANEP in the implementation of Part III.3 of the Project 
including, inter alia: (i) the Borrower’s responsibility to procure the goods, 
works and services; and (ii) SANEP’s responsibilities to comply with the 
safeguard, technical and other requirements of the Loan Agreement and 
Operational Manual applicable to Part III.3 of the Project.  
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the SANEP Agreement or any of its provisions. 
-9- 
 
C. 
Commercial Center, Agro-industrial Cluster and Technology Park 
 
The Borrower shall prior to the award of the bid for the renovation of the commercial 
facility referred to in Part II.1 (c) of the Project, for the agro-industrial sector activities 
referred to in Part II.1 (d) of the Project and for the construction of the technology park 
referred to in Part II.2 of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its approval the respective 
Business Plan. 
 
D. 
Operational Manual 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall, and shall cause SANEP in respect of Part III.3 of the Project to, carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, 
inter alia:
1. 
the functions, responsibilities and training requirements for the personnel 
responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including the UGP, UAP, the Superior Council and the Technical Council; 
 
2. 
procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for financial 
management, disbursement and audits of the Project and respective forms, 
reports and guidelines; 
 
3. 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
(Performance Indicators); 
 
4. 
the Environmental Assessment and Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Framework; and 
 
5. 
the requirements for the preparation and approval of Business Plans. 
 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
E. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
Resettlement 
 
The Borrower shall, when applicable in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resettlement Framework: (a) furnish to the Bank for its approval the Resettlement Plan; 
and (b) carry out such Resettlement Plan in accordance with its terms. 
 
2. 
Safety of Dams: 
 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments: 
 
-10- 
 
(i) 
an evaluation of the safety of the Project Dam, including its reservoir 
banks, associated structures, earthworks, penstocks and other waterways, 
and its generating plant structures and equipment used for water supply 
provision; and 
 
(ii) 
an identification of the measures to be taken to address any deficiencies 
or potential deficiencies in its condition, or in the quality or adequacy of 
maintenance or methods of operation of such facilities which may 
endanger the safety of any of such facilities or the staff maintaining or 
operating the Project Dam; 
 
(b) 
take all such necessary actions to implement identified measures under Part 2 (a) 
(ii) during Project implementation.   
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators (the Performance Indicators) set forth below in the 
Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
-11- 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and non-consultant services.  All goods, works, and non-consultant 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods works, and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consultant services. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods, pregão eletrônico set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law No. 10520 of July 17, 2002). 
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject to the following 
additional procedures: 
 
(i) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.52 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
 
(ii) 
the invitation to bid shall be advertised in at least one newspaper of national 
circulation in Brazil or the national official gazette; 
-12- 
 
(iii) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures (consórcios) of 
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each 
case; 
 
(iv) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
 
(v) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any change order 
under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Quality-Based Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants  
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
-13- 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) 
Goods, 
non-consultant 
services, consultant services, 
training and Operating Costs, 
for all Parts of the Project 
other than Parts I.1 (a) and (b), 
and III. 2 (a) thereof 
 
2,830,000 
 
75%  
(2) (a) Works for Part I.1(c), 
II.1 (c), and (d), Part II.2 (a) 
and (b), Part III.1 (d), III.2 (b) 
of the Project; 
 
(b) Works for Part III.3 (c) 
of the Project 
 
13,130,000 
 
2,190,000 
 
75% 
 
75% 
 
(3) Front-end Fee 
47,250 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement. 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
702,750 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
18,900,000 
 
3. 
For purposes of paragraph 2 above the terms: 
 
(i) 
“Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project and directly 
related to training activities described in the Project, including, inter alia, costs 
related to workshops, seminars, conferences, study tours, training registration 
fees, facility and equipment rentals, and local travel costs and per diems for the 
Borrower’s staff or consultants hired by the UGP; and 
 
-14- 
 
(ii) 
“Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project 
and directly related to the activities described in the Project, including, inter alia,
office materials and supplies, transportation, phone and fax charges, media 
campaigns, printing of materials, and local travel costs and per diems for 
Borrower’s staff or consultants hired by the UGP. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,700,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made within twelve months prior to this date for Eligible Expenditures; 
and 
 
(b) 
for payments made for water supply expenditures under Category 2 (b) of the 
table in paragraph A.2 above, unless the Bank shall have approved the 
assessment and identified actions and measures for the safety of the Borrower’s 
dams referred to in Section I.E.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and taken 
the actions and measures so identified. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.  The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it 
agrees with such extension. 
-15- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning July 15, 2012  
 
through July 15, 2023 
 
4.17% 
On January 15, 2024 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
-16- 
 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-17- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“Beneficiaries” means any party who benefits from the Project activities under Parts 
II.1(c), II.1(d), and II.2(a) of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual. 
2. 
“Business Plan” means a business plan prepared by the Borrower in consultations with 
Beneficiaries, as the case may be, approved by the Bank and detailing the description of 
the business, the marketing strategy, the competitiveness analysis, a development plan, 
operation and management plans and relevant financial information in respect of any 
activity under Parts II.1(c), II.1(d) or II.2(a) of the Project.  
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Cluster” means a geographic concentration of inter-connected businesses, suppliers and 
associated institutions in a particular economic sector. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Assessment and Management Framework” means the framework for 
assessment and management of the environmental, cultural property, natural habitats and 
safety of dams aspects of the Project, prepared by the Participating Municipalities, dated 
July 23, 2007, set forth in the Operational Manual, published and available to the public 
on the website: www.pdmi.com.br. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
8. 
“2007 General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 as amended through 
October 17, 2007. 
 
9. 
“LED” means local economic development. 
 
10. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Participating Municipalities” means: Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande, Santa Maria and 
Uruguaiana and any other municipality in the Guarantor’s State of Rio Grande do Sul 
which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in the Program. 
 
12. 
“PDMI Inter-Municipal Agreement” means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
entered into among the following Participating Municipalities: Bagé, Pelotas, Rio 
Grande, Santa Maria and Uruguaiana on November 5, 2007.  
-18- 
 
13. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators adopted in the Operational Manual for the 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project.  
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 21, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Program” or “PDMI” means the program for the integrated development of the 
Participating Municipalities of the Guarantor’s State of Rio Grande do Sul set forth or 
referred to in the letter from the Participating Municipalities to the Bank dated September 
12, 2007. 
 
17. 
“Project Dam” means the dam of Sinott located in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
18. 
“Resettlement Framework”  means the framework, dated July 23, 2007, prepared by the 
Participating Municipalities and set forth in the Operational Manual defining the 
procedures for the involuntary resettlement of population in the event it is required in 
connection with the works to be carried out under the Project as published and available 
to the public in the website: www.pdmi.com.br. 
 
19. 
“Resettlement Plan” means any plan prepared following the requirements of the 
Resettlement Framework and approved by the Bank. 
 
20. 
“SANEP” means Serviço Autônomo de Saneamento de Pelotas, the Borrower’s water and 
sanitation company. 
 
21. 
“SANEP Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, dated February 22, 2007. 
 
22. 
“SANEP’s Legislation means the Borrower’s Law No. 147, dated October 25, 1965, as 
amended through Law No. 2838, dated May 2, 1984, establishing SANEP. 
 
23. 
“SME” means small and/or medium enterprise. 
 
24. 
“Superior Council” means Conselho Superior,
the council established by the 
Participating Municipalities on November 5, 2007 in accordance with the PDMI Inter-
Municipal Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Technical Council” means Conselho Técnico, the technical arm of the Superior Council 
established by the Participating Municipalities on November 5, 2007 in accordance with 
the PDMI Inter-Municipal Agreement. 
 
-19- 
 
26. 
“UAP” means unidade de articulação, the unit to be established jointly by Participating 
Municipalities in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
27. 
“UGP” means “Unidade Gestão do Projeto”, the unit established within the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Coordination and Planning in January 2007, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Law No. 5.302 dated December 28, 2007.  
 
