CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7518-AZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second National Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 5, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 5, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred thirty million Dollars 
($230,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall: (a) cause Components A.1, B.1 and C.1 of the Project to 
be carried out by the Azersu; and (b) cause Components A.2, B.2 and C.2 of the 
Project to be carried out by the SAWMA, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions, the Project Agreement I and the Project 
Agreement II. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual and the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Azersu’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Azersu to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement 
I. 
 
(b) 
The SAWMA’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the SAWMA to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement II. 
 
(c) 
The Project Operational Manual has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Azersu and/or the SAWMA to perform any of their 
obligations under the Project Agreement I and Project Agreement II. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
Any event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Azersu Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the Azersu. 
 
(b) 
The SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the SAWMA. 
 
(c) 
The revised Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Azersu 
and the SAWMA. 
 
(d) 
The Azersu has appointed all the necessary members in the PIU within 
its International Relations & Development Department (IRDD), 
including one more procurement officer, in accordance with terms of 
reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4
(e) 
The SAWMA has appointed all the necessary members in its PIU, 
including one procurement consultant, in accordance with terms of 
reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(f) 
The Borrower has ensured that the contracts with suitably qualified 
construction management firms for Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project have 
been signed, with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(g) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
The Azersu Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and the Azersu, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Azersu in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and the SAWMA, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the SAWMA in accordance with its terms. 
 
(c) 
The Project Agreement I has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Azersu and is legally binding upon the Azersu in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
(d) 
The Project Agreement II has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
SAWMA and is legally binding upon the SAWMA in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
5
Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:  
 
 
142116 BNKSL 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By /s/ Gregory Jedrzejczak 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Samir Sharifov 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the availability, quality, reliability and 
sustainability of water supply and sanitation services of the Borrower. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Component A: Rayon Investment
1. 
Rehabilitation and extension of water supply and sewerage systems, as well as 
facilities for water, wastewater and sludge treatment in the Selected Rayons in Azersu’s 
Service Areas. 
2. 
Rehabilitation and extension of water supply and sewerage systems, as well as 
facilities for water, wastewater and sludge treatment in the Selected Rayons in 
SAWMA’s Service Areas. 
Component B: Institutional Modernization
1. 
Capacity building and modernization of the Azersu and its subsidiary companies, 
through: (a) the provision of training for management, financial management, customer 
service, procurement, preventive maintenance and other  subjects pertinent to effective 
and efficient management of the utilities; (b) development of performance monitoring, 
preventive maintenance and leak detection and repair; and (c) design and technical 
support for construction management, including procurement support and contract 
supervision for the investments. 
2. 
Capacity building and modernization of the SAWMA, through: (a) the provision 
of training for management, financial management, customer service, procurement, 
preventive maintenance and other subjects pertinent to effective and efficient 
management of the utilities; (b) development of performance monitoring, preventive 
maintenance and leak detection and repair; and (c) design and technical support for 
construction management, including procurement support and contract supervision for 
the investments. 
Component C: Project Management
1. 
Strengthening of the management capacity of the Azersu to monitor and 
administer implementation of the Project, including audit. 
7
2. 
Strengthening of the management capacity of the SAWMA to monitor and 
administer implementation of the Project.  
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Azersu to undertake the responsibility with regard 
to the financial management, financial reporting and audits for the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Azersu to ensure that all goods, works and services 
required for the carrying out of Components A.1, B.1 and C.1 of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with the provision of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the SAWMA to ensure that all goods, works and 
services required for the carrying out of Components A.2, B.2 and C.2 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the provision of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Azersu and the SAWMA shall retain, during 
the implementation of Components A.1 and A.2 of the Project, the services of a 
construction management company satisfactory to the Bank until the Bank’s 
assessment has determined that the Azersu and/or the SAWMA have the capacity 
to take over such a responsibility independently. 
B. 
Azersu Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Azersu’s Respective Part of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Azersu 
under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the Azersu, under terms 
and conditions agreed by the Bank (“Azersu Subsidiary Agreement”).  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Azersu Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Azersu Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
9
C. 
SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the SAWMA’s Respective Part of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the SAWMA 
under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the SAWMA, under 
terms and conditions agreed by the Bank (“SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement”).  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SAWMA Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. 
Safeguards. 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Azersu and SAWMA, for their Respective Parts of 
the Project, to ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the EMP, 
FEA and RPF shall be taken in a timely manner. 
2. 
(a) 
In case any activities under the Project involve any use of water from 
existing dams or dams under construction, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Azersu and/or the SAWMA shall, for their Respective Parts of the Project, 
arrange for one or more independent dam specialists, acceptable to the Bank, to: 
(i) inspect and evaluate the safety status of the existing dam or dam under 
construction, its appurtenances, and its performance history; (ii) review and 
evaluate the owner's operation and maintenance procedures; and (iii) provide a 
written report of findings and recommendations for any remedial work or safety-
related measures necessary to upgrade the existing dam or dam under 
construction to an acceptable standard of safety, prior to commencing any such 
activities. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Azersu and/or the SAWMA shall 
carry out their Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the 
recommendations set forth in the report referred to in subparagraph (iii) above. 
 
10 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
11 
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder; 
(ii)  
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works procurement and 
shall be conducted only for large works contracts; 
(ii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
(vi) 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of 
producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
(vi) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ 
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring 
entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available budget; 
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank; 
(ix) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
(x) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the 
contract scope and conditions during implementation. 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
12 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e) Single-source Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
3. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
13 
 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(net of VAT) 
 
(1) Works 
 
(a) for Component A.1 of  
 
the Project 
 
(b) for Component A.2 of  
 
the Project 
 
670,000 
 
330,000 
 
75% 
(2)  Goods 
 
(a) for Components A.1 and 
 
B.1 of the Project 
 
(b) for Components A.2 and 
 
B.2 of the Project 
 
139,645,000 
 
68,780,000 
 
75% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
     
575,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0 
Amount due under 
Section 2.07 (c) of 
this Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
    
20,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
230,000,000
14 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2013. 
 
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date[, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct 
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.] 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
October 15, 2012 
2.42 % 
April 15, 2013 
2.50 % 
October 15, 2013 
2.59 % 
April 15, 2014 
2.68 % 
October 15, 2014 
2.78 % 
April 15, 2015 
2.87 % 
October 15, 2015 
2.97 % 
April 15, 2016 
3.08 % 
October 15, 2016 
3.19% 
April 15, 2017 
3.30 % 
October 15, 2017 
3.41 % 
April 15, 2018 
3.53 % 
October 15, 2018 
3.66 % 
April 15, 2019 
3.78 % 
October 15, 2019 
3.92% 
April 15, 2020 
4.05 % 
October 15, 2020 
4.20 % 
April 15, 2021 
4.34 % 
October 15, 2021 
4.49% 
April 15, 2022 
4.65 % 
October 15, 2022 
4.81 % 
April 15, 2023 
4.98 % 
October 15, 2023 
5.16 % 
April 15, 2024 
5.34 % 
October 15, 2024 
5.52% 
April 15, 2025 
5.78 % 
16 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
17 
 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
18 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Azersu” means “Azersu” Joint Stock Company of Republic of Azerbaijan, 
established under the Presidential Decree No. 252 on June 11, 2004, which is 
also the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
3. 
“Azersu Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Azersu. 
 
4. 
“Azersu’s Legislation” means its Charter, which was approved by the Decree No. 
50 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower, dated March 22, 2005, and the 
Presidential Resolution No. 252 on June 11, 2004. 
 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
7. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, dated January 4, 2008, 
setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse impact to the environment. 
 
8. 
“FEA” means the Framework Environmental Assessment, dated January 4, 2008, 
setting forth the framework of environmental assessment to be carried out in 
order to mitigate any adverse impact to the environment. 
 
9. 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association for the Project, of the same date as this Agreement, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Financing Agreement” includes 
all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
 
19 
 
11. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit within the IRDD of the Azersu 
and/or the SAWMA, responsible for the implementation of the Project. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 13, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
adopted pursuant to Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement, setting forth the 
operational, maintenance and administrative procedures for the implementation 
of the Project. 
 
15. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated February 28, 2008, 
defining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons under Components A and C of the Project. 
 
16. 
“SAWMA” means the State Amelioration and Water Management Agency of 
Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic, which is also the Project Implementing 
Entity. 
 
17. 
“SAWMA’s Legislation” means the Decree of the Supreme Parliament of 
Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic on the Establishment of the State 
Amelioration and Water Management Agency on the basis of State Amelioration 
and Water Management Committee under the Cabinet of Ministers of 
Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic, dated October 27, 2004 (Decree No. 160-II 
FR).
18. 
“SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to the SAWMA. 
 
19. 
“Selected Rayons in Azersu’s Service Areas” means Rayons of Imishli, 
Kurdamir, Siyazan, Aghsu, Ismayili, Udjar, Zardab, Lenkoran, Masalli, Astara, 
Jaliabad, Yardimli, Lerik, Davachi, Dashkesan and Gadabey, subject to 
modifications as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time. 
 
20. 
“Selected Rayons in SAWMA’s Service Areas” means Rayons of Sadarak, 
Kangarli, Shahbuz, Djulfa, Ordubad, subject to modifications as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time. 
20 
 
21. 
“VAT” means the value-added tax, levied in accordance with the legislation of 
the Borrower. 
 
