  
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7637-ME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Montenegro Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
 
between 
 
MONTENEGRO 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 30, 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
  
LOAN NUMBER 7637-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 30, 2008, between MONTENEGRO (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six million five hundred thousand 
Euros (EUR 6,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MED, MoES and 
MoHLSW in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedules 2 and 4 to this Agreement. 
 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Stanka Dragojevica 2 
20000 Podgorica 
Montenegro 
 
Facsimile:  
 
382 20 224 450 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Podgorica, Montenegro, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
MONTENEGRO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Igor Luksic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Jan-Peter Olters 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve energy efficiency performance in 
targeted public sector buildings with a view to developing a sustainable energy efficiency 
improvement program in the Borrower’s public sector. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A. Energy Efficiency Improvement in Public Sector Buildings 
 
Implementing a program of demonstrable energy savings measures, through the 
carrying out of civil works and the provision of goods and consultants’ services, to 
support energy efficiency retrofitting in selected public sector buildings such as schools 
and other buildings for educational purposes, hospitals, clinics and facilities for social 
care. 
 
Part B. Support to the Implementation of the Project 
 
(a)  
Support to the Project Steering Committee, the Project coordinator and 
the TSU in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, through the 
provision of goods, consultants’ services and training, the carrying out of audits required 
under the Project and the financing of Operating Costs; (b)  the carrying out of surveys 
and energy audits; and (c) support to MoES and MoHLSW, through the provision of 
consultants’ services, for the design, procurement and implementation of energy savings 
measures under the Project.  
 
 
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements  
1. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, maintain the Project 
Steering Committee with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank. The Project Steering Committee, which shall be headed by MED, shall be 
responsible for overall Project implementation oversight and coordination and for 
preparing Project Reports. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project, MoES and MoHLSW shall each maintain 
an investment and Project implementation staff, supported as necessary by 
consultants, with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
responsible for preparing, designing and implementing energy efficiency 
measures in, respectively, schools and other buildings for educational purposes, 
hospital, clinics and facilities for social care, and for coordinating with the 
Project Steering Committee.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, within two (2) months from the Effectiveness Date, appoint 
and thereafter maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, a Project 
coordinator with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
The Project coordinator, which shall be assigned to MED’s energy efficiency 
unit, shall be responsible for supporting the Project Steering Committee, MoES 
and MoHLSW in the implementation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project, and for coordinating with the Project Steering Committee and the 
TSU.   
 
4. 
TSU shall be responsible for procurement, disbursement and financial 
management of the Project under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Procurement Plan and, 
to this end, the Borrower shall maintain, adequately fund and staff the TSU with 
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.   
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
- 7 - 
C. 
Safeguards  
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Framework, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or 
waive any provision of said Framework without prior written approval of the 
Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no works under Part A of the Project involve land 
acquisition or resettlement of population. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Part A of the Project and prior to the commencement of any 
energy savings measures for each proposed site, the Borrower shall: (a) submit to 
the Bank for its approval the proposed site for said measures and the related site-
specific environmental management plan and checklist, said site-specific plan 
and checklist to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and to be duly 
included in the proposed contracts for said measures; and (b) ensure that such 
measures are carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management 
Framework.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
 
- 8 - 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding: Procedures for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be carried out by using either (a) World Bank standard 
bidding documents or (b) bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, 
prepared by the Borrower on the basis of Open tendering procedure 
under the Borrower’s Public Procurement Law (Official Gazette 46/06 
of July 21, 2006), all subject to the additional procedures set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
- 9 - 
Procurement Method 
 
(b)  
Shopping 
 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(d) Individual Consultants 
 
(e) Single Source Selection 
 
(f) Sole Source Selection 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:   
 
(a)  
for goods and works: each contract procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding; the first two contracts procured on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding; each contract for goods (supply and installation),  the first two 
contract for works and the first two contracts for goods procured on the basis of 
 
- 10 - 
Shopping; and each contract procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; and (b) for 
consultants’ services: each contract for services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; the first two contracts for services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost less than $100,000; the first two contracts with individual consultants; 
each contract with individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more; each Single Source Selection contract; and each Sole Source Selection contract. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euros) 
 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
 
(1) Goods, works and consultants’ 
      services for the Project 
 
 
6, 233,750 
 
100% 
 
(2) Operating Costs 
 
        
            250,000 
 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
             16,250 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
                                          
 
- 11 - 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euros) 
 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
     and Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
 
 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
          6,500,000 
  
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
  
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
October 1, 2012 
14.25% 
April 1, 2013 
13.75% 
October 1, 2013 
13.25% 
April 1, 2014 
12.75% 
October 1, 2014 
12.25% 
April 1, 2015 
11.75% 
October 1, 2015 
11.25% 
April 1, 2016 
10.75% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
 
- 13 - 
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Additional Procedures for National Competitive Bidding 
 
For purposes of paragraph B.2 (a), Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the 
following additional procedures shall apply to National Competitive Bidding: 
 
(a) Generalities 
 
Bidding shall be conducted using “Open Procedures.” Furthermore, restricted 
procedure shall not be used without the express consent of the Bank and is subject to 
the following conditions: 
 
o the contracting authority shall invite all the candidates that meet the 
selection criteria 
o no maximum number of selected candidates shall apply. 
 
(b) Registration 
 
 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;  
 
Where registration is required, bidders (1) shall be allowed a reasonable 
time to complete the registration process, and (2) shall not be denied 
registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-
qualification; and 
 
Foreign bidders not from the territory of Republic of Montenegro shall not 
be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a foreign 
bidder declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity to register. 
 
(c) Advertising, time for submission of bids 
 
 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper. Invitations could be also advertised on the web 
site of the respective ministry.  
 
Time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less 
than thirty (30) days from the time of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later.   
 
(d) Pre-qualification 
 
 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) 
widely circulated national daily newspaper Invitations could be also 
 
- 15 - 
advertised in the official gazette and on the web site of the Public 
Procurement Bureau. 
 
Time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less 
than thirty (30) days from the time of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later.   
 
Minimum experience, and technical and financial requirements, shall be 
explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(e) Participation by Publicly-owned enterprises 
 
 
Publicly-owned enterprises shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if 
they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate 
under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting 
authority. Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders.  
 
(f) Bidding Documents  
 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable 
to the Bank for procurement of goods and works. 
 
(g) Bid Opening, Bid Evaluation and Contract Award 
 
 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder's 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened 
simultaneously at the public bid opening;  
 
No bids shall be rejected at the bid opening except for late bids and bids 
shall not be evaluated as part of bid opening process. 
 
The economic, financial al technical capacity of the bidders cannot be 
guaranteed by another entity, except joint venture and observing those 
criteria set up in the bidding documents. 
 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the quantifiable 
criteria declared in the bidding documents and evaluation criteria other than 
price shall be quantified in monetary terms. 
 
Bids not substantially responsive shall be rejected. 
 
Extensions of bid validity will be allowed once only for not more than 30 
days. No further extensions shall be requested without the prior approval of 
the Bank;  
 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest-evaluated and substantially responsive bid. No negotiation shall take 
place.  
 
 
- 16 - 
(h)  Rejection of all bids  
 
All bids shall not be rejected and a new procurement process starts without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence.  
 
(i)  Price Adjustment 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain an 
appropriate price adjustment clause.  
 
(j) Securities 
 
 
Bid security and performance security should follow the generally accepted 
practice used in the local market.  
 
Alternative methods such as bid securing declaration may be acceptable, in 
which case the Borrower may require bidders to sign a declaration accepting 
that if they withdraw or modify their bids during the period of validity or 
they are awarded the contract and they fail to sign the contract or to submit a 
performance security before the deadline defined in the bidding documents, 
the bidder will be suspended for bidding in any contract with the 
implementing unit. 
 
No advance payment shall be made to contractors without a suitable 
advance payment security. These securities shall be included in the bidding 
documents in a text and format acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(k)   Right to inspect and audit 
 
Each contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that the suppliers, 
contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their 
accounts and records relating to the procurement and performance of the contract and 
to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. The 
deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such 
provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
(l)  Fraud & Corruption 
 
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time 
determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in 
executing, a contract financed by the World Bank Group. 
 
- 17 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the framework dated July 25, 
2008, prepared and adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, 
consisting of the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures 
required for the Project and to be taken to eliminate adverse environmental and 
social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as 
actions needed to implement said measures, including the measures and 
information required for the preparation of site-specific environmental 
management plans and checklists referred to in paragraph C.3, Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
6. 
“MED” means the Borrower’s Ministry for Economic Development and includes 
any successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“MoES” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Science and includes 
any successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“MoHLSW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, Labor and Social Welfare 
and includes any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and 
includes any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the Project 
Steering Committee, the Project coordinator and the TSU on account of Project 
implementation, including the costs of translation, communication, printing and 
 
- 18 - 
supplies, local travel costs and field trip expenses and fees paid to the consultant 
hired for purposes of Project coordination, other than civil servants’salaries. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 23, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the Project steering committee established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s decision dated September 22, 2008, and maintained 
by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph A.1, Section I of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, and comprising representatives of MED, MoES and MoHLSW 
and the Project coordinator. 
 
14. 
“TSU” means the Technical Services Unit within MoF. 
