CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7573 JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Amman Solid Waste Management Project) 
 
between 
 
THE GREATER AMMAN MUNICIPALITY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 4, 2008  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7573 JO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated December 4, 2008, between THE GREATER AMMAN 
MUNICIPLAITY 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions 
or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-five million United States 
dollars (US$25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with  
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. On or promptly after the Effectiveness 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of said fees. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
- 2 -
2.05. The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Fixed Rate to a Variable Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, the 
Borrower’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
- 3 -
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
 
5.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Mayor of the Greater Amman Municipality 
of Jordan. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Greater Amman Municipality 
City Hall, Ras Al–Ein, Omar Mattar Street. 
P.O. Box 132 Amman 11118  
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
962-6-4744306 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
- 4 -
AGREED at Amman, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
THE GREATER AMMAN MUNICIPALITY   
 
By /s/  Omar Khireddin Ma’ani 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/  Ziad Badr 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the   
operational, financial and environmental performance of its municipal solid waste system 
through upgrading the existing municipal solid waste landfill to meet the City of 
Amman’s increasing demand for solid waste disposal as well as in improving the 
efficiency of the Borrower’s municipal solid waste services and the cost recovery for the 
delivery of said services, including strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to pilot private 
sector participation in the delivery of municipal solid waste services.   
The Project consists of the following three parts: 
Part 1: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity-Building
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance and support for capacity-building to the 
Borrower in areas of planning, developing, managing and evaluating 
services for municipal solid waste in the City of Amman, including: 
(i) supporting the Borrower’s strategic planning and its promotion of 
private sector participation in the delivery of municipal solid 
waste services;  
(ii) developing a framework for monitoring and evaluating the 
operational, financial and environmental performance of the 
municipal solid waste system of the City of Amman;  
(iii) developing and implementing a public information, education and 
communication program for the Borrower in areas relating to 
municipal solid waste; and  
(iv) supporting the Borrower in carrying out training and capacity-
building for its staff in areas pertaining to the LFG recovery 
system.  
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower for: (i) supervising  the 
contract to design, build and operate the LFG recovery system at the Al 
Ghabawi landfill as well as for the operation of a system for municipal 
solid waste disposal at said landfill; (ii) supervising the contract to 
construct two solid waste transfer stations in the City of Amman; and 
(iii) supervising the contract to construct a third solid waste disposal cell 
at the Al Ghabawi landfill as well as for upgrading the leachate treatment 
facility at said landfill. 
- 6 -
Part 2: Infrastructure Development
(a) 
Developing a third cell for the disposal of municipal solid waste at the Al 
Ghabawi landfill and upgrading the leachate treatment facilities at said 
landfill; 
(b)   
Developing two solid waste transfer stations in the City of Amman; and 
(c)  
Designing, building and operating an LFG recovery system at the Al 
Ghabawi landfill.  
Part 3: Project Management
Provision of technical assistance to PMU to support the implementation of the 
Project as well as to support the monitoring and evaluation of said Project. 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through PMU, shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower and/or PMU shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Project Implementation Manual, if, in the opinion of the Bank, 
such amendment or waiver may materially or adversely affect the carrying out of 
the Project or the achievement of the Project objectives.  
2. 
The Borrower shall at all times maintain PMU with adequate functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Bank. PMU shall be responsible for the 
implementation of all components of the Project, including the procurement and 
financial management processes under the Project and the preparation of Project 
reports. 
3. 
The Borrower shall at all times maintain an Advisory Committee, comprising the 
City Manager, the Director of PMU, the Deputy City Manager for Planning, 
Investment and Economic Development, the Deputy City Manager for Public 
Services and senior level officers from MOPIC, MoE and the Executive 
Privatization Commission, and said Advisory Committee shall provide strategic 
guidance and oversight in the monitoring, evaluation and implementation of the 
Project.   
B. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through PMU, shall (i) carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, the Environmental and 
Social Impact Assessment, the Environmental and Social Management Plan, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and the Resettlement Action Plans, and shall not 
amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, the 
Environmental and Social Management Plan, the Resettlement Policy 
Framework and the Resettlement Action Plans, without prior approval of the 
Bank; and (ii) include adequate information on the implementation of the 
Environmental and Social Management Plan and the Resettlement Action Plans 
in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A.1 of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through PMU, shall ensure that all measures identified and 
described in the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, the 
- 8 -
Environmental and Social Management Plan and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework are taken in a timely manner. 
 
3. 
Prior to the commencement of any works or any construction under this Project, 
involving involuntary resettlement or involuntary acquisition of land, the 
Borrower, through PMU, shall prepare and implement an appropriate 
Resettlement Action Plan for compensation, or resettlement, in accordance with 
the Resettlement Policy Framework, and the said Resettlement Action Plan shall 
be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
1. 
The Borrower, through PMU, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished by PMU to the Bank not later than one month after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower, through PMU, shall maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through PMU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through PMU, shall have the Financial Statements of the Project 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General 
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower or any other period agreed upon with the Bank. The 
- 9 -
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished by PMU to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
4. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished by the 
Borrower to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the Bank’s procurement procedures 
and the following additional procedures:  
(a) Standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used. 
(b) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available to 
prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of bids. 
- 10 -
(c) Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over 
the estimated cost. 
(d) Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
(e) Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, no preference of any 
kind shall be given to national bidders, and having a presence in the 
Borrower’s territory shall not be made a condition for bidding. 
(f) Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be 
stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is required, 
a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be 
given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance i.e. no 
non-registration status should be considered as a non-eligibility-to-bid 
criterion and a one-envelope bid submission system should be employed. 
(g) Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(h) Except for late bids, bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably 
immediately, but no later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and prices for all bids shall be read out at such public 
session and no disqualification shall be made at that stage. 
(i) Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed 
in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified period, 
agreed with the Bank. 
(j) Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
(k) Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When 
two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made 
to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if collusion 
is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the award 
shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and 
(B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be 
invited after receiving the concurrence of the Bank. 
(l) Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial 
period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. Extension of 
bid validity may be sought only under exceptional circumstances. 
(m) Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence 
of the Bank: (A) for the first request for extension if it is longer than 
- 11 -
eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for extensions 
irrespective of the period. 
(n) Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(o) Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(p) All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated 
in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s performance 
security shall apply to a specific contract under which it was furnished. 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following methods, other than 
International Competitive Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, may be 
used for the procurement of goods for those contracts specified in the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping, and (b) Direct Contracting.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which the said procurement methods 
may be used. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for the 
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts specified in the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS), (b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS), (c) Least Cost Selection (LCS), (d) Single 
Source Selection (SSS), and (e) Individual Consultants.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which the said procurement methods may 
be used. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
2. 
Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (two 
hundred thousand United Sates dollars) equivalent per contract may be composed 
entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
- 12 -
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for 
Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) (i) Works under Parts 2(a) 
 
and 2(c) of the Project 
 
(ii) Works under Part 2(b) 
 
of the Project 
 
21,657,000 
 
2,590,500 
 
90% of Foreign Expenditures; 
90% of Local Expenditures 
(ex-factory cost), and 70% of 
Local Expenditures for other 
items procured locally. 
(2) Consultants’ services,  
 
including training 
 690,000
90% for firms within territory 
of the Borrower; 95% for 
services 
of 
individual 
consultants within territory of 
the Borrower; and 90% of 
foreign expenditures. 
(3) Front-end Fee  
    62,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 
(b) 
of 
the 
General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
25,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
- 13 -
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   
(b) 
under Category 1(ii), for Project activities relating to Part 2(b) of the 
Project, until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank an Environmental 
and Social Management Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for developing 
two solid waste transfer stations in the City of Amman. 
 
2
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower;   
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with carrying out training under the Project, including travel, 
hotel and per diem, and printing, presentation material, equipment rental, 
room rental and catering for training attendees. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and 
September 15 , Beginning 
March 15, 2016 through 
September 15, 2025.  
 
5 %
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, 
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to 
which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 15 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 16 -
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Borrower’s Legislation” means the Municipalities Law of the Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan, No. 14 of 2007, providing for the constitution of the 
Borrower, including any amendments thereto or any succeeding legislation. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” means the Borrower’s 
environmental and social impact assessment of the Project, furnished to the Bank 
on June, 22, 2008, pursuant to the Bank’s Operational Policy 4.01, to identify, 
avoid and mitigate potential negative environmental impacts associated with the 
Project. 
 
6. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the Borrower’s 
environmental and social management plans pertaining to the Project, as such 
plans may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank, setting forth 
the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the 
implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse 
environmental, natural habitats and cultural property impacts to levels acceptable 
to the Bank.  
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
8. 
“Guarantee Agreement” means the agreement be entered into between the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, as the Guarantor under this Agreement, and the 
Bank. 
 
9. 
“Guarantor” means the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, or any successor thereto.   
 
10. 
“LFG” means gas produced at any landfill. 
 
- 17 -
11. 
“LFG Recovery System” means the technological system for extracting and 
collecting gas from landfill cells and using said gas to generate electricity. 
 
12. 
“MoE” means the Ministry of Environment of the Hashemite Kingdom of 
Jordan, or any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“PMU” means Borrower’s project management unit, or any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 16, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
16. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation Manual to 
be prepared by the Borrower and furnished to the Bank prior to December 30, 
2008, setting forth, inter alia, detailed principles, processes and procedures for 
implementing the Project, as such plan may be updated from time to time in 
agreement with Bank. 
17. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means a Resettlement Action Plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be prepared by an independent environmental assessment expert and 
adopted by the Borrower, describing the details for land acquisition, resettlement 
and rehabilitation under the Project.  
 
18. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy Framework 
furnished to the World Bank by the Borrower on May, 7, 2008, which, inter alia,
defines the principles, organizational arrangements and design criteria to be 
applied to any land acquisition and/or involuntary resettlement that may arise in 
the course of the implementation of the Project, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
