CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7551-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Health Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 8, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 8, 2008, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000) 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 -
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MOH and shall cause the 
Project Participants to carry out their respective Rural Health Programs and the 
Project Counties to carry out their respective Sub-projects, all in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:   
- 3 -
(a) 
Any Project Participant shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement to which it is a party.  
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that any Project Participant will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Implementation Agreement to which it is a party. 
 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOH, shall have adopted the Operation Manual 
that it prepared in accordance with Section I, paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Implementation Agreements shall have been executed between the 
Borrower and at least three (3) Project Participants in accordance with 
the provisions set forth in Section I, paragraph 8(c) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
 
(c) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of 
this Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the 
Implementation Agreement with each of the Project Participants referred to in 
Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and Project Participant concerned, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and said Project Participant in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
- 4 -
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in providing increased and 
more equitable access to quality health services and in improving financial protection 
against escalating health care costs, both for rural households, and in improving 
management of public health threats.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A: Health Reform Innovations 
 
Development and implementation of a program for innovations in health reform 
through the provision of grants to carry out sub-projects to: 
 
(1) 
Strengthen the development of the rural health protection system by improving 
the financing and coverage of health services for rural households, especially 
under the national New Cooperative Medical Scheme (“NCMS”) and the 
Medical Assistance Scheme (“MAS”), including:  
 
(a) 
Streamlining and coordinating management and delivery of services to 
increase benefits under the NCMS and MAS.  
 
(b) 
Developing means to control the cost of health services by piloting 
alternative provider payment mechanisms, by strengthening fund 
management and control capability, by establishing interfaces with 
health service units for electronic data exchange, by introducing new 
functions that permit actuarial analysis, and by providing training and 
other capacity building activities and incentives for cost control and 
management.  
 
(c) 
Developing guidelines or options for the design of basic health benefit 
packages.   
 
(d) 
Strengthening, 
monitoring 
and 
supervision 
of 
health 
services 
management, such as establishment of democratic and community-based 
monitoring and supervision mechanisms.   
 
(2) 
Improve the conditions and capacity of rural health providers, thereby 
contributing to increased quality, efficiency and cost control of delivering health 
services, including:  
- 6 -
(a) 
Developing models for defining, monitoring, and enforcing performance 
standards for the delivery of health services; for developing clinical 
guidelines and systems to monitor the adherence to standards for health 
service delivery; and for establishing and implementing systems to 
monitor the quality of health care. 
 
(b) 
Developing and implementing a model for integrated primary health 
care, including: (i) definition of functions of integrated primary care 
providers; (ii) assessment of infrastructure and human resource 
implications of consolidation and integration; (iii) development and 
implementation of proposals for specific institutional and financing 
arrangements; and (iv) renovation and construction of village clinics and 
provision of basic medical equipment. 
 
(c) 
Developing and implementing an appropriate regulatory framework to 
support reforms in delivery of health services, including minimum 
licensing requirements for providers; reporting requirements to ensure 
transparency; price regulation to ensure consistency with new provider 
payment methods; and regulation that effectively controls the use of 
operational surpluses of government and non-profit providers. 
 
(d) 
Developing capacity and capabilities to implement reforms in delivery of 
health care services, including provision of training and development of 
protocols for health professionals and management methods for 
administrators managing the transition to retirement or alternative 
employment for those health professionals that do not meet defined 
standards, and development and implementation of sustainable plans and 
systems for certification and re-certification of health professionals, and 
for ensuring adequate staffing in rural locations and facilities.  
 
(3) 
Create a sustainable framework for public health function and services in rural 
areas, including: 
 
(a) 
Developing a multi-sectoral public health strategy that, among other 
things, sets out government priorities and actions for improving health, 
defines the roles of institutions around core public health functions and 
services, details coordination mechanisms for the provision of health care 
services and designates responsibilities for particular tasks, including 
areas such as immunization, maternal and child health and health 
education. 
 
(b) 
Piloting models for the financing and organization of public health services; 
for community health promotion to address major health risks; and for 
improved management of communicable and non-communicable diseases 
through improved disease surveillance at the county and village levels. 
- 7 -
(c) 
Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness, efficiency, and equity of 
public health services provision. 
 
Part B: Project Coordination, Policy Development and Replication 
 
Establishment and strengthening of institutional capacity and capability at the 
national, provincial and county levels to manage Project activities, to evaluate 
and disseminate Project implementation experiences (comprising a series of 
models that can be replicated at the provincial and national level) and to take into 
account such experiences when developing rural health policies at the national 
and provincial levels, all through the provision of technical assistance, training, 
study tours and goods. 
- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain at the national level, throughout the period of implementation 
of the Project, the Foreign Loan Office (“FLO”) established within 
MOH, responsible for serving as a secretariat to Leading Group and 
overall for implementation of Project activities, monitoring and 
evaluation, replication of successful innovation pilots, liaising with 
Project Participants, and providing coordination among relevant agencies 
and departments within MOH.   
 
(b) 
establish, and thereafter maintain at the national level throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project, the following with composition, 
terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank: 
 
(i) 
by December 1, 2008, a Leading Group chaired by the 
Borrower’s Minister of Health to be responsible for providing 
overall policy direction for the implementation of the Project, for 
coordinating ministries at the central government level, and for 
evaluating Project achievements for purposes of dissemination 
and new policy development;   
 
(ii) 
by December 1, 2008, a National Expert Panel (“NEP”) to be 
responsible for providing technical assistance to Project 
Participants and Project Counties in the preparation of sub-
project proposals; and  
 
(iii) 
a National Validation Panel, which includes independent experts, 
to be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the progress of 
Sub-projects with focus on whether milestones set out in Sub-
project MOUs have been achieved and whether remedial actions 
or rewards are warranted, depending on implementation progress 
of the Sub-projects.  
- 9 -
Resettlement, Environment Protection, Minority Development 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
take, and shall cause the Project Participants and Project Counties to 
take, all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or 
permanently in carrying out the Project;  
 
(b) 
for this purpose, whenever implementation of Project activities under 
Rural Health Programs or Sub-projects would give rise to Displaced 
Persons, prepare, and cause to be prepared, a resettlement action plan in 
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and, thereafter, provide said plan to the 
Bank for review and implement such resettlement action plan as shall 
have been accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory; and  
 
(c) 
provide, and cause the Project Participants and Project Counties 
concerned to provide, to the Bank for its prior concurrence any proposed 
modification or waiver of the Resettlement Policy Framework and any 
resettlement action plan prepared in accordance with said Framework 
and accepted by the Bank as being satisfactory, prior to putting into 
effect such modification or waiver. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall implement, and shall cause the Project Participants and 
Project Counties to implement, Project activities under their respective Rural 
Health Programs and Sub-projects in accordance with sound environmental 
practices and standards. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause the Project Participants and Project 
Counties to carry out, social assessments in accordance with the guidelines set 
forth in the Social Assessment Guidelines and in the event that ethnic minorities 
may be affected by Project activities under their respective Rural Health 
Programs or Sub-projects, to comply with the provisions of the Ethnic Minorities 
Planning Framework and where an ethnic minority development plan is required 
to be prepared pursuant to said Framework, to furnish said plan to the Bank for 
review prior to the approval of the Rural Health Program or Sub-project 
concerned. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Participants and Project Counties 
to:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
- 10 -
implementation of any resettlement action plan prepared in accordance 
with the Resettlement Policy Framework and any ethnic minority 
development plan prepared in accordance with the Ethnic Minorities 
Planning Framework and the achievement of the objectives of said plans, 
including the engagement of experienced and qualified independent 
monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
include in the Project Report, which is to be prepared under Section II.A 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities with respect to the plans referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above.  
 
Operation Manual  
 
6. 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
an operation manual (“Operation Manual”) setting out the criteria, 
procedures, terms and conditions for the appraisal, selection and 
approval of Project Participants, Project Counties, Rural Health 
Programs, Sub-projects and Block Grants, including those set out or 
referred to in Section I, paragraphs 7 and 8 of this Schedule;  
 
(b) 
adopt and carry out, and cause each Project Participant to adopt and carry 
out, the Project in accordance with an Operation Manual that has been 
approved by the Bank; and   
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval any proposed amendment to the 
provisions of the Operation Manual and, thereafter, put into effect such 
amendment as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
 
Rural Health Program  
 
7. 
The Borrower shall select and approve project participants and rural health 
programs, consisting of Sub-projects under Part A of the Project and activities 
under Part B of the Project (collectively, “Rural Health Program”) in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set out in the Operation Manual, including that: 
 
(a) 
A program may be approved only if said program supports, at the 
minimum: 
 
(i) 
measures to improve equity of access to quality health services 
(including, by gender); 
 
(ii) 
measures to strengthen the NCMS design and management (such 
as, monitoring and information systems, NCMS governance and 
- 11 -
accountability arrangements, resource mobilization, benefit 
package design and linkage with MAS); 
 
(iii) 
reforms of health provider payment methods; 
 
(iv) 
reforms to enhance health service quality including, linking 
quality standards and procedures with financial and other 
incentives; and 
 
(v) 
institutional and financing reforms to improve public health 
functions and delivery of public health services. 
 
(b) 
A program may be considered for approval only if it is presented in a 
template approved by the Bank and includes the following information: 
 
(i) 
the results of a social assessment carried out in accordance with 
the Social Assessment Guidelines; 
 
(ii) 
prioritized proposals that respond to the key health system 
challenges outlined in said program and the social assessment; 
 
(iii) 
a workplan and budget for the first year of implementation of 
said program; 
 
(iv) 
milestones for the implementation of said program; and 
 
(v) 
plans for operational research, technical assistance, supervision, 
evaluation, knowledge management and dissemination, and 
project management that effectively relates to its county 
programs. 
 
8. 
A Rural Health Program to be carried out by a Project Participant shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if: 
 
(a) 
the Project Participant shall have demonstrated to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, that the following requirements have 
been met:  
 
(i) 
the proposed program shall be economically and financially 
viable, and technically feasible, and shall have been designed in 
accordance with appropriate public health standards and 
practices;  
 
- 12 -
(ii) 
the Project Participant shall have the organization, management 
and resources required for the proper carrying out of the 
proposed program, and to this end, has established a PMLG, 
PPMO and PEP in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Annex 1 to this Schedule; and 
 
(iii) 
for programs proposed: (A) before March 31, 2011; or 
(B) before the proceeds of the Co-financing are fully disbursed, 
whichever date is earlier, the cost of goods and works does not 
exceed 30% of the total amount of Loan and Co-financing to be 
used for the proposed program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall have allocated an amount of the proceeds of the Loan 
(“Allocated Amount”) to said Project Participant to enable it to carry out 
its Rural Health Program.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall have entered into an implementation agreement with 
the Project Participant to carry out its Rural Health Program and to make 
available to the Project Participant the latter’s respective Allocated 
Amount on conditions acceptable to the Bank and as set forth in an 
implementation agreement, which shall be entered into between the 
Borrower and said Project Province in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule.   
 
Implementation Agreement between the Borrower and Project Participant 
 
9. 
The Borrower shall: (a) cause each Project Participant to perform, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Implementation Agreement to which said Project 
Participant is a party, all of the obligations of said Project Participant therein set 
forth; (b) take or cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said 
Project Participant to perform such obligations; and (c) not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
10. 
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights under each Implementation Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Implementation Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
 
Annual Work Plan 
 
11. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by October 31 of each year, commencing 
on October 31, 2008, an annual work plan for implementation, at the central and 
provincial government levels, of activities under Part B of the Project prepared in 
- 13 -
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and thereafter, 
implement said plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.    
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause to be monitored and 
evaluated, the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators set forth in Annex 2 to this Schedule.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than April 15 and October 15 in each year, starting on April 15, 2009.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank by not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 
and October 31 in each year after the end of each calendar quarter, interim  
un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
- 14 -
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
procedures: 
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of 
China promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of 
China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for 
compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except contracts for 
works estimated to cost less than US$2,000,000 equivalent each or 
goods contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent 
each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to 
obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be 
given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper 
- 15 -
and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no 
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the Project Participants in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required form 
and amount of such security. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average 
bids established by the Project Participants. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
- 16 -
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods if they can establish that 
they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate under 
commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency 
conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3). 
 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c)        Community Participation procedures described in the Operation Manual 
(d) 
Force Account 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(b)  
Single Source Selection 
(c)  
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
- 17 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category (inclusive of taxes subject to 
the provisions of Section 2.06 of the General Conditions). 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in US$) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) For MOH, goods, consultants’ 
services, training and Program 
Support under Part B of the 
Project 
2,150,191 
 
100% after DFID End 
Date 
(2) For Chongqing Municipality:  
 
 
(a) 
Block Grants  
5,697,315 
30% of Block Grants 
disbursed until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
 
(b) 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Program Support under 
Part B of the Project  
396,332  
30% until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
(3) For Gansu Province:  
 
 
(a) 
Block Grants  
4,641,088  
30% of Block Grants 
disbursed until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
 
(b) 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Program Support under 
Part B of the Project  
310,032  
30% until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
- 18 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in US$) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(4) For Heilongjiang Province:  
 
 
(a) 
Block Grants  
3,742,162  
30% of Block Grants 
disbursed until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
 
(b) 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Program Support under 
Part B of the Project  
 
145,168  
30% until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
(5) For Henan Province:  
 
 
(a) 
Block Grants  
8,756,243  
30% of Block Grants 
disbursed until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
 
(b) 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Program Support under 
Part B of the Project  
 
607,328 
30% until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
(6) For Jiangsu Province:  
 
 
(a) 
Block Grants  
6,294,503  
100% of Block Grants  
 
(b) 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Program Support under 
Part B of the Project  
 
616,015  
100% 
(7) For Qinghai Province:  
 
 
(a) 
Block Grants  
3,649,876  
30% of Block Grants 
disbursed until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
 
(b) 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Program Support under 
Part B of the Project  
163,242  
30% until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
- 19 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in US$) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(8) For Shaanxi Province:  
 
 
(a) 
Block Grants  
5,601,474  
30% of Block Grants 
disbursed until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
 
(b) 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Program Support under 
Part B of the Project  
 
450,518  
30% until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
(9) For Shanxi Province:  
 
 
(a) 
Block Grants  
3,614,975  
30% of Block Grants 
disbursed until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
 
(b) 
Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Program Support under 
Part B of the Project  
 
138,538  
30% until DFID End 
Date and 100% thereafter 
(10) Unallocated 
2,900,000  
-- 
(11) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.04 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000 
 
For purposes of this paragraph 2, “DFID End Date” means March 31, 2011, or the date 
by which the proceeds of the Co-financing are fully disbursed, whichever date is earlier. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
- 20 -
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after January 1, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures; and 
 
(b) 
under each of Categories (2) through (9), unless and until the Bank shall 
have notified the Borrower and the Project Participant concerned of the 
Bank’s receipt of evidence satisfactory to the Bank that an 
Implementation Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and said Project Participant and that said Implementation Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and said Project 
Participant and is legally binding upon the Borrower and said Project 
Participant in accordance with its terms. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
- 21 -
Annex 1 
to Schedule 2 
 
For purposes of Section I, paragraph 8(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each 
Implementation Agreement with a Project Participant shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which the Project Participant shall be obligated to carry out the following actions: 
 
Management 
 
1. 
Each Project Participant shall undertake to have the organization, management 
and resources required for the proper carrying out of its Rural Health Program, 
and to this end shall establish and, thereafter, maintain throughout the period of 
Project implementation, with composition, terms of reference, staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
A Participant Multi-sectoral Leadership Group (“PMLG”) to be 
responsible for reviewing sub-project proposals by Project Counties, 
evaluation of pilot schemes and disseminating lessons learnt from 
implementation of Sub-projects.  
 
(b) 
A Participant Project Management Office (“PPMO”), established within 
the Health Bureau of the Project Participant concerned, to be responsible 
for day-to-day implementation of the Project, including assisting Project 
Counties with the preparation and implementation of Sub-project 
proposals, procurement, monitoring and evaluation of activities, 
management of funds and progress reporting.    
 
(c) 
A Participant Expert Panel (“PEP”) to be responsible for providing 
technical assistance to Project Counties in the preparation of Sub-project 
proposals. 
 
General Implementation 
 
2. 
(a) 
Each Project Participant shall undertake: (i) to carry out its Rural Health 
Program, and cause the Rural Health Program to be carried out, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and in accordance with the provisions of the Operation Manual; and 
(ii) to provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for its Rural Health Program. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the above provision, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, each Project Participant shall undertake to carry out its 
Rural Health Program, and to cause its Rural Health Program to be 
carried out, in accordance with the following provisions: 
 
- 22 -
(i) 
Procure all goods, works and services, which are required for the 
Project Participant’s Rural Health Program and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
(ii) 
(A) 
Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures of said Project Participant’s 
departments or agencies that are responsible for carrying out its 
Rural Health Program or any part thereof. 
 
(B) 
(I) Have the records and accounts referred to in sub-
paragraph (b)(ii)(A) above, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (II) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (III) furnish to the 
Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank may, from time to 
time reasonably request. 
 
(iii)   
Monitor and evaluate the progress of its Rural Health Program 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
indicators set forth in Annex 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to MOH for consolidation and 
submission to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section II.A 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
(iv)  
Without limitation on the provisions in sub-paragraph (b)(iii) 
above, prepare and furnish interim un-audited financial reports 
for its Rural Health Program covering each calendar semester to 
MOH for consolidation and submission to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of Section II.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Sub-projects and Block Grants 
 
3. 
Each Project Participant shall undertake to apply the criteria, procedures, terms 
and conditions set forth in the Operation Manual in the selection and approval of 
project counties, sub-projects and block grants, including that: 
 
 
- 23 -
(a) 
A proposed project county may be approved only if the project county 
has the organization, management and resources required for the proper 
carrying out of its sub-project, and to this end shall have established and, 
thereafter, shall maintain throughout the period of implementation, with 
composition, terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to 
the Bank: 
 
(i) 
A County Multi-sectoral Leadership Group (“CMLG”) to be 
responsible for reviewing and evaluating sub-project proposals.  
 
(ii) 
A County Project Management Office (“CPMO”), established 
within the Health Bureau of the Project County concerned, to be 
responsible for the preparation of sub-project proposals and upon 
approval of such proposals, the implementation of activities 
thereunder.  
 
(iii) 
A County Expert Panel (“CEP”) to be responsible for provision 
of technical assistance for the preparation and implementation of 
Sub-projects.  
 
(b) 
A sub-project may be approved only if it supports, at the minimum: 
 
(i) 
measures to improve equity of access to quality health services 
(including, by gender); 
 
(ii) 
measures to strengthen the NCMS design and management (such 
as, monitoring and information system, NCMS governance and 
accountability arrangements, resource mobilization, benefit 
package design, linkage with MAS); 
 
(iii) 
reforms of provider payment methods; 
 
(iv) 
reforms to enhance quality including, linking quality standards 
and procedures with financial and other incentives; and 
 
(v) 
institutional and financing reforms to improve public health 
functions and delivery of public health services. 
 
(c) 
A sub-project proposal may be considered for approval only if it is 
presented in a template approved by the Bank, which template shall 
include the following information: 
 
(i) 
the results of a social assessment carried out in accordance with 
the Social Assessment Guidelines; 
 
- 24 -
(ii) 
prioritized proposals that respond to the key health system 
challenges outlined in the said Sub-project and in the social 
assessment; 
 
(iii) 
a workplan and budget for the first year of implementation of the 
proposed rural health program; and 
 
(iv) 
milestones for the implementation of the proposed rural health 
program. 
 
(d) 
Before March 31, 2011, or before the proceeds of the Co-financing are 
fully disbursed, whichever date is earlier, a sub-project may be approved 
only if the cost of goods and works does not exceed 30% of the total 
amount of Loan and Co-financing to be used for the proposed  
sub-project. 
 
Sub-project MOU 
 
4. 
Upon approval of a Project County, Sub-project and Block Grant in accordance 
with the provisions of the Operation Manual, each Project Participant shall 
undertake to:  
 
(a) 
Allocate to the Project County a portion of the Project Participant’s 
Allocated Amount (“Block Grant”) for purposes of carrying out said 
Project County’s Sub-project.    
 
(b) 
Make said Block Grant available to the Project County, on a grant basis 
and in Renminbi and only after the Project Participant has entered into a 
memorandum of understanding (“Sub-project MOU”) with the Project 
County concerned on conditions satisfactory to the Bank and with rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the 
Project Participant, including the right of the Project Participant to 
suspend or terminate the right of the Project County to the use of the 
proceeds of the Block Grant upon failure by such Project County to 
perform its obligations under its Sub-project MOU. 
 
5. 
Each Project Participant shall undertake to:  
 
(a) 
cause the Project County to perform, in accordance with the provisions 
of the Sub-project MOU to which said Project County is a party, all of 
the obligations of said Project County therein set forth;  
 
(b) 
take or cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
said Project County to perform such obligations; and  
- 25 -
(c) 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
6. 
Each Project Participant shall undertake:  
 
(a) 
to exercise its rights under each Sub-project MOU in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Project Participant, Borrower and Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Block Grant; and 
 
(b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any Sub-project MOU or any provision thereof. 
 
7. 
Each Project Participant shall undertake to withdraw the proceeds of the Block 
Grant only to finance expenditures for goods, works, services, training and 
Program Support required for a Sub-project.    
 
8. 
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Block Grant unless a Sub-project MOU has been signed with the 
Project County concerned in accordance with the provision of paragraph 4(b) of 
this Annex 1.   
- 26 -
Annex 2 to Schedule 2 
Performance Indicators 
 
Results Framework 
 
PDO 
Project Outcome Indicators 
Use of Project Outcome 
Information 
Increased and 
more equitable 
access to quality 
health services, 
improved 
financial 
protection, and 
better 
management of 
public health 
threats in pilot 
provinces and 
counties, with 
lessons to 
support reforms 
in non-project 
areas 
1. Ratio of hospitalization rate of MA 
(Medical Assistance scheme) vs. 
non-MA beneficiaries 
2. Ratio of outpatient visit rate of the 
bottom 20% vs. the top 40% in the 
income distribution in the previous 
year 
3. % households with annual health 
expenditures in excess of 20% of 
total income 
4. Rate of overall satisfaction with 
rural health services among men 
5. Rate of overall satisfaction with 
rural health services among 
women 
6. Public health system scorecard 
rating. 
7. Innovation accepted and rolled out 
at provincial or regional level   
1. Tracking disparities in use of 
inpatient services between poor 
(as proxied by MA membership) 
and non-poor.  
2. Tracking disparities in use of 
outpatient services between poor 
and non-poor. 
3. Tracking the incidence of 
catastrophic health expenditures, 
and progress in improving 
incidence through improvements 
in the NCMS. 
4. Tracking progress in improving 
the performance of the rural health 
system as perceived by users. 
5. Same as (4). 
6. Tracking progress in public health 
system reform and strengthening. 
7. Tracking extent to which 
innovations are found useful for 
policy purposes by higher level 
authorities and thus scaled up. 
Intermediate 
Outcomes 
Project Outcome Indicators 
Use of Project Outcome 
Information 
Reform Area 1: 
Improved health 
financing system 
and management 
8. 
% of total annual (individual) 
inpatient expenses financed 
through out-of-pocket payments 
for NCMS members 
9. 
 % of total annual (individual) 
inpatient expenses financed 
through out-of-pocket payments 
for MA beneficiaries covered by 
the NCMS 
10. Total annual NCMS 
expenditures as % of total annual 
NCMS funds 
11. % NCMS enrollment rate 
8. Tracking progress towards 
greater reliance on pre-payment 
(deeper coverage). 
9. Same as (7), but specifically for 
the poorest households. 
10. Tracking improvement in 
management of NCMS funds and 
actuarial basis for benefit 
package, which are expected to 
reduce annual surpluses and 
deficits. 
11. Tracking progress in client 
satisfaction with and trust in 
NCMS, as reflected in enrollment 
decision.  
- 27 -
Intermediate 
Outcomes 
Project Outcome Indicators 
Use of Project Outcome 
Information 
Reform Area 2: 
Improved 
quality, 
efficiency, and 
cost control in 
service delivery 
12. Average number of outpatient 
visits per health professional per 
day over last year at THC 
13. Rate of change in average cost 
per inpatient case in county 
hospitals 
14. % of deliveries by caesarean 
section 
15. % of outpatients at township 
health centers and village clinics 
that receive two or more 
antibiotics 
16. % of women who have access to 
a female qualified health worker 
12. Tracking improvement in 
technical efficiency due to 
overstaffing or under-use in 
THCs 
13. Tracking progress in 
implementing effective cost 
control measures  
14. Tracking effectiveness of cost 
control and quality improvement 
measures (based on comparisons 
with other project areas and 
possibly non-project areas). 
15. Tracking effectiveness of broad 
cost control and quality 
improvement measures aimed at 
reducing unnecessary 
interventions and promoting 
appropriateness of care. 
16. Tracking improvement in 
staffing patterns and systems to 
ensure access to female health 
workers. 
Reform Area 3: 
Improved 
financing and 
provision of core 
public health 
service 
17. % of villages that meet ’healthy 
village’ standards 
18. % of women between age 15 and 
49 who undergo gynecological 
check-up in the last year 
19. % of individuals over 35 with 
hypertension who have been 
followed-up in the three months 
20. Annual per capita government 
expenditures on county level 
public health institutions and 
programs 
17. Tracking progress in delivering 
core public health services in 
rural villages. 
18. Tracking progress in expanding 
coverage and improving quality 
of effective preventive services 
19. Same as (16). 
20. Tracking progress in expanding 
government support to public 
health services and programs. 
Component 2: 
21.  Project lessons and experiences 
are documented and 
disseminated (Qualitative) 
22. Project experiences are extended 
or adopted outside project areas 
(Qualitative) 
 
- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies: 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
beginning June 15, 2014 through June 15, 2028 
3.33% 
on December 15, 2028 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
- 29 -
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
- 30 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each Project Participant, an amount of 
the Loan proceeds allocated by the Borrower to said Project Participant pursuant 
to the provisions of Section I, paragraph 8(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be utilized by said Project Participant for purposes of carrying out its 
Rural Health Program.  
 
2. 
“Block Grants” means, collectively, grants made by Project Participants to their 
Project Counties out of the proceeds of the Loan and proceeds of the  
Co-financing for the financing of: (a) goods; (b) works; (c) training; and (d) the 
reasonable cost of incremental expenditures incurred by CPMOs in the 
implementation of Sub-projects (which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Sub-projects) including, cost of office supplies, 
communication, courier services, contract staff, staff travel and associated per 
diem, but excluding salaries, all for the purpose of carrying out of Sub-projects 
pursuant to the provisions of the Sub-project MOUs signed between the Project 
Participants and their respective Project Counties in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 4 of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and the 
term “Block Grant” means, individually, any such Block Grant. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Co-financier” means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
acting through its Department for International Development.  
 
5. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of three million and eight hundred thousand 
British Pounds Sterling (£3,800,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist 
in the financing of the Project. 
6. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
People’s Republic of China and the Bank, acting as administrator of the  
Co-financing, providing for the Co-financing. 
 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
8. 
The acronym “CPMOs” mean, collectively, the county project management 
offices established by Project Counties pursuant to the provisions of  
paragraph 3(a)(ii) of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
- 31 -
9. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
10. 
The acronym “FLO” refers to the Foreign Loan Office established within MOH 
and referred to in Section I, paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
12. 
“Implementation Agreement” means in respect of each Project Participant, the 
agreement entered into between the Borrower and said Project Participant in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I, paragraph 8(c) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
13. 
“Ethnic Minorities Planning Framework” means the Ethnic Minorities Planning 
Framework dated April 22, 2008, which forms part of the Social Assessment 
Guidelines, and sets out, among other things, the policies and procedures for free, 
prior and informed consultation with ethnic minorities, who are affected by 
Project activities, to establish whether there is broad community support for the 
Project and for the preparation of ethnic minority development plans where 
applicable. 
 
14. 
The acronym “MAS” means the Medical Assistance Scheme described in the 
Circular on Implementing the MFA in Rural areas, issued by the Ministry of 
Civil Affairs, Ministry of Health and Ministry of Finance. 
 
15. 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, and any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
The acronym “NCMS” means the New Cooperative Medical Scheme described 
in the Circular on the Establishment of New Cooperative Medical System in 
Rural Areas issued by the General Office of State Council. 
 
17. 
“Operation Manual” means the Operation Manual prepared and adopted by the 
Borrower and the Project Participants pursuant to Section I, paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
- 32 -
18. 
The acronym “PEP” means the Participant Expert Panel established by a Project 
Participant pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
19. 
The acronym “PMLG” means the Participant Multi-sectoral Leadership Group 
established by a Project Participant pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1(a) 
of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
20. 
The acronym “PPMO” means the Participant Project Management Office 
established by a Project Participant pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1(b) 
of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
23. 
“Program Support” means the reasonable cost of incremental expenditures 
incurred by FLO and PPMOs in the implementation of the Project (which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project) including, cost of 
office supplies, communication, courier services, contract staff, staff travel and 
associated per diem, but excluding salaries of civil servants. 
 
24. 
“Project County” means a county selected in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operation Manual, and any successor thereto to carry out a Sub-project; and 
“Project Counties” means, collectively, all such Project Counties. 
 
25. 
“Project Participants” means, collectively: (a) the Provinces of Gansu, Qinghai, 
Heilongjiang, Henan, Jiangsu, Shaanxi and Shanxi, and Chongqing Municipality; 
and (b) any other province, autonomous region or municipality of the Borrower 
selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set out in the Operation 
Manual, and any successor thereto to carry out a Rural Health Program; and 
“Project Participant” means, individually, any of such Project Participants. 
 
26. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Rural Health Resettlement Policy 
Framework dated April 22, 2008, and adopted by MOH, which framework sets 
out the policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the 
preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required during the 
implementation of the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to 
time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
- 33 -
27. 
“Rural Health Programs” means, collectively, the sub-projects to be carried out 
under Part A of the Project and the activities under Part B of the Project, which 
satisfy the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I, paragraphs 7 and 8 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and which are to be carried out by Project 
Participants and their Project Counties utilizing the proceeds of their Allocated 
Amount; and “Rural Health Program” means, individually, any of such 
programs. 
 
28. 
“Social Assessment Guidelines” means the Social Assessment Guidelines dated 
April 22, 2008, which sets out the guidelines for assessing the needs and interests 
of different stakeholders and ethnic minorities that may be affected by Sub-
project activities; for consultations with and analyses of interests of stakeholders 
and ethnic minorities; for developing proposals to address the interests identified 
with a view to ensuring access and equity of access to health services and 
includes the Ethnic Minorities Planning Framework. 
 
29. 
“Sub-projects” means, collectively, the programs to be carried out under Part A 
of the Project by Project Counties and pursuant to Sub-project MOUs to be 
signed between Project Counties and their respective Project Participants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and “Sub-project” means, individually, any such Sub-project. 
 
30. 
“Sub-project MOU” refers to the Memorandum of Understanding to be entered 
into between a Project Participant and its Project County pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 4 in Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Loans of the Bank, dated July 1, 2005 
(as amended through February 12, 2008) are as follows: 
 
1. 
The first paragraph in Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank 
 
If any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this Section occurs 
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account. 
Such suspension shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to the 
suspension has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan 
Parties that such right to make withdrawals has been restored.” 
 
2. 
Paragraphs (c) and (l) in Section 7.02 are deleted in their entirety and paragraphs 
(d) through (m) in Section 7.02 are re-numbered accordingly. 
 
- 34 -
3. 
Paragraph (c) under Section 7.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
 Fraud; Corruption; Collusion; Coercion. At any time, the Bank: (i) 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount 
of expenditures under such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.” 
 
4. 
Paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) in Section 7.06 are modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Co-financing. The event specified in sub-paragraph (g)(ii)(B) of  
Section 7.02 has occurred, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g)(iii) of that 
Section. 
 
(d) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. Any event specified in 
paragraph (h) of Section 7.02 has occurred. 
 
(e) 
Condition of Borrower or Project Implementing Entity. Any event 
specified in sub-paragraph (j)(ii), (j)(iii), (j)(iv) or (j)(v) of Section 7.02 has 
occurred.” 
 
5. 
Paragraphs 3, 15, 16, 17 and 18 in the Appendix (Definitions) are modified to 
read as follows:  
 
“3. 
“Additional Event of Suspension” means any event of suspension 
specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 7.02(k).” 
 
“15. 
“Co-financier” means the financier (other than the Bank or the 
Association) referred to in Section 7.02(g) providing the Co-financing. If the 
Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financier, “Co-financier” refers 
separately to each of such financiers.” 
 
“16. 
“Co-financing” means the financing referred to in Section 7.02(g) and 
specified in the Loan Agreement provided or to be provided for the Project by the 
Co-financier. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financing, 
“Co-financing” refers separately to each of such financings.” 
 
- 35 -
“17. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to in  
Section 7.02(g) providing for the Co-financing.” 
 
“18. 
“Co-financing Deadline” means the date referred to in Section 7.02(g)(i) 
and specified in the Loan Agreement by which the Co-financing Agreement is to 
become effective. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such date,  
“Co-financing 
Deadline” 
refers 
separately 
to 
each 
of 
such 
dates.”
 
