  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7562 JO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Social Protection Enhancement Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 8, 2008  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7562 JO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 8, 2008, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF 
JORDAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four million United States Dollars 
(US$4,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with  
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. On or promptly after the Effectiveness 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of said fees. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Fixed Rate to a Variable Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower, through MOSD, shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the 
Borrower has appointed fully trained procurement and financial management 
specialists with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
 
- 3 - 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Post office Box 555  
Amman, 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
962-6-464 9341 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
 
 
By /s/ Suhair Al-Ali 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 4 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving its 
management and delivery of the Cash Social Assistance Program aimed at reducing 
poverty among low-income households and individuals, as well as improving access to 
and quality of social work and care services for socially vulnerable families and 
individuals. 
The Project consists of the following four parts: 
Part 1: Institutional Development and Capacity-Building  
Developing and strengthening the capacity of institutions concerned with the 
provision of social welfare services to analyze, design, coordinate, monitor, 
evaluate and implement policies pertaining to social welfare and protection, 
including: 
(a) 
Developing the institutional capacity of CCSS in areas pertaining to 
social policy research and training, and social policy. 
(b) 
Strengthening the institutional and human resources capacity of MOSD 
to formulate and implement safety net policies, as well as developing its 
strategic development and human resources management plans, 
including developing MOSD’s capacity to analyze and utilize statistical 
data on poverty and vulnerability, as well as the capacity to utilize 
information and communication technologies. 
(c) 
Strengthening the institutional and human resources capacity of DOS in 
areas pertaining to the collection, processing and reporting statistical 
data, including poverty measurement and monitoring, as well as use of 
information and communication technology. 
Part 2: Strengthening NAF’s role in Poverty Reduction  
Building NAF’s capacity to manage and deliver the Cash Social Assistance 
Program through: 
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance to NAF in the design and 
implementation of efficient systems for identifying and targeting socially 
vulnerable and poor households and individuals that are eligible for the 
Cash Social Assistance Program. 
- 5 - 
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance to NAF in developing an efficient and 
reliable financial management system as well as in developing efficient 
and reliable means of administering the Cash Social Assistance Program. 
(c) 
Developing a comprehensive management information system for the 
management and delivery of the Cash Social Assistance Program. 
(d) 
Building NAF’s institutional and human resources capacity.  
Part 3: Social Work and Community-Based Social Care Services  
Improving the social work and community-based social care services provided by 
MOSD, in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, through: 
(a) 
Developing standards to guide the provision of such services as well as 
mechanisms for monitoring compliance with the standards. 
(b) 
Upgrading the model of social care in MOSD’s residential care 
institutions. 
(c) 
Developing, implementing and evaluating pilot integrated social service 
centers. 
(d) 
Developing, implementing and evaluating a pilot of resource and 
information centers for individuals with disabilities. 
(e) 
Provision of support to MOSD to establish and maintain a social 
innovation program for assisting in the implementation of innovative 
projects pertaining to social work and community-based social care 
services. 
Part 4: Project Management 
Carrying out Project management activities, including:  
(a) 
Provision of support to project implementation.  
(b) 
Provision of support to develop and maintain an efficient and effective 
information system for the Project. 
(c) 
Provision of support to monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, 
including procurement and financial management arrangements under 
the Project. 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOSD, shall implement the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Operations Manual. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower and/or MOSD shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Project Operations Manual, if, in the opinion of the Bank, such 
amendment or waiver may materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the Project objectives.  
2. 
The Borrower shall at all times maintain PISU with adequate functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Bank. The said PISU shall be responsible for, 
inter alia, coordinating and overseeing the Project activities carried out by 
MOSD, CCSS, DOS and NAF, including the procurement and financial 
management processes under the Project and the preparation of Project reports.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through PISU, shall prepare detailed annual Project 
implementation plans and submit them for the Bank’s review not later than 
December 1 of each year of Project implementation, starting from December 1, 
2008. 
4. 
Not later than April 30, 2009, the Borrower shall appoint an auditor for the 
Project, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through MOSD, shall set up a Special Tender Committee for the 
management of procurement arrangements under the Project. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower, through MOSD, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports   
1.  
The Borrower, through MOSD, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare overall Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with 
the Bank. Each overall Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
- 7 - 
semester, and shall be furnished by MOSD to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower, through MOSD, shall maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through MOSD, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through MOSD, shall have the respective Financial Statements of 
the Project audited, by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. 
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal 
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished by MOSD to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period.  
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
- 8 - 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the Bank’s procurement 
procedures and the following additional procedures:  
(a) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used. 
(b) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(c) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(d) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(e) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders, and having a presence in the 
Borrower’s territory shall not be made a condition for bidding. 
(f) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance i.e. no non-registration status should be considered as a non-
eligibility-to-bid criterion and a one-envelope bid submission system 
should be employed. 
(g) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
 
(h) 
Except for late bids, bids shall be opened in public in one place 
preferably immediately, but no later than one (1) hour, after the deadline 
for submission of bids, and prices for all bids shall be read out at such 
public session and no disqualification shall be made at that stage. 
 
(i) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Bank. 
 
(j) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
- 9 - 
(k) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the 
award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Bank. 
(l) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(m) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Bank: (A) for the first request for extension if it is 
longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(n) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(o) 
Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(p) 
All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following 
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding for goods and National 
Competitive Bidding for goods and works, may be used for the procurement of 
goods and works for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) 
Shopping, and (b) Direct Contracting.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which the said procurement methods may be used. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for the 
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts specified in the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS); (b) 
- 10 - 
Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS); (c) Least Cost Selection (LCS); (d) Single 
Source (SSS); and (e) Individual Consultants. The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which the said procurement methods may be 
used. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
2. 
Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (two 
hundred thousand United Sates dollars) equivalent per contract may be composed 
entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for 
Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
      services, training and  
      incremental operating costs 
  
 
3,727,500 
 
 
40% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
10,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07(b) 
of 
the 
General 
Conditions 
- 11 - 
 
(3) Unallocated 
 
 
262,500 
 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
4,000,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed four hundred thousand 
United States dollars (US$400,000) equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category (1). 
2 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means recurrent expenditures 
incurred in connection with the Project on account of maintenance of 
equipment, office supplies, office support, communications and salaries 
of contractual staff, but excluding salaries of civil servants of the 
Borrower. 
3. 
The Closing Date is August 31, 2013. 
- 12 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning October 15, 2013  
through October 15, 2027  
 
 
3.33 % 
     
On April  15, 2028  
 
3.43% 
 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
- 13 - 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, 
to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to 
which a Currency Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
- 14 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Cash Social Assistance Programs” means a program that delivers cash 
assistance to households or individuals assessed as eligible for assistance. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“CCSS” means the Borrower’s Coordination Commission of Social Solidarity or 
any successor thereto. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“DOS” means the Borrower’s Department of Statistics or any successor thereto. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
8. 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
9. 
“MOSD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Development or any 
successor thereto. 
10. 
“NAF” means the Borrower’s National Aid Fund or any successor thereto.  
11. 
“PISU” means MOSD’s Project Implementation Support Unit responsible for 
supporting the implementation of the Project or any successor thereto.  
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 22, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
- 15 - 
14. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the Project Operations Manual prepared by 
MOSD and furnished to the Bank on March 15, 2008, setting out the principles 
and procedures governing the implementation of the Project. 
15. 
“RIC” means a Borrower’s Resource and Information Center responsible for the 
provision of social welfare and rehabilitation services to persons with physical 
and mental disabilities.     
