CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4884 KZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Technology Commercialization Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 2, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4884 KZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 2, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN  
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirteen million four hundred 
thousand Dollars ($13,400,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due, and such non payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest paid by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoES in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
11 Pobedy Street 
Astana 010000 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
265126 (FILIN)  
(7) (3172) 717785 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
3
AGREED at  Astana, Republic of Kazakshtan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By: /s/ Bolat Zhamishev 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Shigeo Katsu 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to demonstrate significantly improved scientific 
performance and commercial relevance of research performed by inter-disciplinary teams 
of scientists selected through a transparent competitive process. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Strengthening Science Base
Identifying and developing leading scientists and talented young researchers to 
conduct research and development at international standards through: (a) the 
establishment of an International Science and Commercialization Board and an 
internationally-peer reviewed journal; (b) a Senior Scientist Group (SSG) grant program 
and a Junior Researcher Group (JRG) grant program; and (c) the establishment of an 
International Materials Science Center (IMSC). 
 
Part 2: Linking Science to Markets
Provision of technical assistance for the development of the expertise required to 
link science more closely to domestic and international markets through: (a) the 
establishment of a Technology Commercialization Office (TCO) to provide a range of 
technology commercialization services, including the development of a technology 
commercialization strategy, and the development of targeted training programs in foreign 
languages, business planning and communication; (b) undertaking a technology audit to 
inform policy-makers and scientists about innovation assets and to compile a knowledge 
map database for the marketing of technology; (c) a review of legal and regulatory 
provisions, structures and incentives related to technology commercialization, industrial 
innovation, venture capital and financing, and intellectual property; and (d) conducting a 
market assessment to complete design and administration of a range of Borrower-
financed grant programs. 
 
Part 3: Program Management
Support the establishment of the PMU for Project coordination, implementation, 
and management. 
 
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following 
institutional and other arrangements: 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MoES, shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and operational procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual and the EMP, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any provisions of the Operational Manual or the EMP without prior approval of the 
Bank.  
2. 
The ISCB shall provide guidance for all scientific matters associated with the 
Project, including the selection of the SSGs and JRGs, monitoring of their scientific and 
commercialization progress, establishment and functioning of an internationally-peer 
reviewed journal, and oversight of the operation of the IMSC in accordance with the 
requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and operational procedures set forth 
in the Operational Manual, and the EMP.  
3. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain the ISCB with a composition, resources, and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
4.  
Not later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall appoint 
to the PMU a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist, and a director on 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
5.  
Not later than six (6) weeks after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall adopt the 
Operational Manual. 
6.  
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 15, 2010, prepare a study that reviews 
the legal, policy and regulatory framework of intellectual property rights, the 
restructuring of research and development institutions and technology commercialization 
in the Republic of Kazakhstan; and (b) exchange views with the Bank on the legal, policy 
and regulatory measures necessary to improve science management, technology 
commercialization, intellectual property rights and the restructuring of research and 
development institutions in the Republic of Kazakhstan, taking into account the outcomes 
of the study. 
6
7. 
In order to ensure that adequate funds are available to cover the Borrower’s 
contribution to the Project, the Borrower shall make the appropriate annual budget 
allocations to the MoES. 
 
B.  
Sub-projects 
 
1. 
For the purposes of Part 1(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall make SSG Grants 
and JRG Grants in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual, which shall include the following: grant proposals shall: (i) be 
market-oriented and scientifically internationally competitive; (ii) have research 
relevance for the current or future scientific, economic, and industrial development of 
Kazakhstan, including the possibility of forging research partnerships with local or 
foreign business firms; (iii) include plans for mentoring graduate and undergraduate 
students and providing training fellowships aimed at nurturing the next generation of 
scientists; (iv) have potential for, and interest in conducting multidisciplinary research; 
(v) include proposals for outreach activities to universities, secondary schools, and the 
general public; and (vi) shall be selected, appraised, implemented and evaluated in 
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, the 
Procurement Guidelines, and the EMP. 
2.  
The Borrower shall make each SSG Grant under a SSG Grant Agreement and 
each JRG Grant under a JRG Grant Agreement on terms and conditions approved by the 
Bank, which shall include the following:   
(a)  
SSG Grants and JRP Grants shall be denominated in Tenge; and 
(b)  
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those 
of the Bank, including the right to:  
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of a SSG or a JRG to use the 
proceeds of the SSG Grant or JRG Grant, as the case may be, or 
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the SSG Grant 
or JRG Grant, upon failure by a SSG or JRG to perform any of 
its obligations under a SSG Grant Agreement, or a JRG Grant 
Agreement, respectively; and  
(ii) 
require each SSG and each JRG to: (A) carry out its obligations 
under a SSG Grant Agreement, or a JRG Grant Agreement, as 
the case may be, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance 
with 
sound 
technical, 
economic, 
financial, 
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the EMP; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the 
resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works 
and services to be financed out of a SSG Grant Agreement, or a 
JRG Grant Agreement, as the case may be, in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement, and the Procurement 
7
Guidelines; (D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the Sub-project and the 
achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain a financial 
management system and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; 
and (2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such 
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the 
statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing. 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each SSG Grant Agreement, and 
under each JRG Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any SSG 
Grant Agreement, or any JRG Grant Agreement or any of their provisions. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Project Closing Date. 
 
3. 
On or about June 15, 2010, the Borrower, through the MoES, shall carry out 
jointly with the Bank, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
(hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover, 
amongst other things: 
 
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
8
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through the MoES, shall prepare at least four (4) weeks prior to 
the Midterm Review, and furnish to the Bank, a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
9
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section II of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth in the 
Attachment to this Schedule 2 
(b)   
Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection  
(b)        Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)        Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)        Single-source Selection 
(e)       Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants  
10
Procurement Method 
 
(f)        Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
1. SSG Grants and JRP Grants 
 
under Part 1(b) of the Project 
 
10,500,000 
50% 
2.  Consultants’ Services   
 
for Part 2(a) of the   Project  
 
2,400,000 
100% 
3.  Consultants’ Services   
 
for Part 2(c) of the   Project  
 
500,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
13,400,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
11
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b)  
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-End Fee; and 
 
(c) 
under Category 1, unless the ISCB, as satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
established; and 
 
(d) 
under Category 3, unless the TCO, as satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
established. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
12
Attachment to   
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding procedures of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
A. 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises
Government-owned enterprises on the territory of the Borrower shall be eligible 
to participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
 
B. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods acceptable to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents; 
 
(c) 
domestic preference should not be applied; and 
 
(d) 
contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall 
take place. 
 
D. 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (for example, more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
E. 
Cancellation of the Bidding Process
Non-recognition of a tender and soliciting new bids can be done only with the 
prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
13
F. 
Rejection of an Individual Bid
An individual bid shall be rejected only in the following cases: 
 
(a) 
the bidder is not qualified; 
 
(b) 
the bidder does not accept the correction of an arithmetical error in his 
bid by the Tender Commission of the procuring entity; and 
 
(c) 
the bidder is not responsive to the requirements of the bidding 
documents. 
 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
 
beginning July 15, 2013  
through January 15, 2023 
670,000 
 
15
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“EMP” means the Framework Environmental Management Plan, dated 
November 5, 2007, adopted by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, 
describing the rules, guidelines and procedures to assess environmental impacts 
and defining measures to reduce, mitigate or offset adverse environmental 
impacts and enhance positive impacts of activities supported under the Project as 
well as of investments to be made under the Project, including under Part 1 (b) of 
the Project, and the same as may be amended from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
5. 
“IMSC” means the International Materials Science Center, to be established by 
the MoES under Part 1 (c) of the Project, as a world class laboratory facility in 
accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and 
operational procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
6. 
“ISCB” means the International Science and Commercialization Board, to be 
established under the MoES pursuant to Part 1 (a) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement in accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational 
arrangements and operational procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, 
and which shall comprise seven (7) individuals including five (5) distinguished 
scientists and two (2) commercialization experts as satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
7. 
“Junior Research Group” or “JRG” means an incorporated group of young 
research scientists who are beneficiaries under a JRG Grant Agreement, selected 
in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, 
and “JRGs” means more than one such JRG. 
8. 
“JRG Grant” means a grant made by the Borrower to a JRG under Part 1 (b) of 
the Project under a JRG Grant Agreement, and “JRG Grants” means more than 
one such grant. 
 
16
9. 
“JRG Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered into between the Borrower 
and a JRG, referred to in Part B.2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
on terms and conditions approved by the Bank. 
 
10. 
“MoES” means the Ministry of Education and Science of the Borrower or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the Project operational manual satisfactory to the 
Bank and to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Part A.5 of Section I of 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement, describing procedures for implementation of the 
Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national 
laws and regulations of the Borrower and including, inter alia: (i) procedures 
governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, and 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (ii) sample formats for annual reports; 
and (iii) terms and conditions for the selection, appraisal, evaluation and 
implementation of the SSG Grants and JRP Grants; as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit within the MoES, responsible for 
implementation of the Project and which shall include the following staff, whose 
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a 
financial management specialist; (ii) a procurement specialist; and all under the 
leadership of (iii) a director. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 7, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
 “Senior Scientist Group” or “SSG” means an incorporated group of senior 
research scientists, who are beneficiaries under a SSG Grant Agreement, selected 
in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, 
and “SSGs” means more than one such SSG. 
16. 
“SSG Grant” means a grant made by the Borrower to a SSG under Part 1 (b) of 
the Project under a SSG Grant Agreement, and “SSG Grants” means more than 
one such grant. 
 
17. 
“SSG Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered into between the Borrower 
and a SSG, referred to in Part B.2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
on terms and conditions approved by the Bank. 
17
18. 
“Sub-project(s)” means the sub-project(s) selected, appraised, and implemented 
in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual, the Procurement Guidelines, and the EMP. 
 
19. 
“TCO” means the Technology Commercialization Office under the MoES 
responsible for, inter alia, developing a technology commercialization strategy, 
conducting a technology audit, designing and implementing Borrower-financed 
grant programs, and training in accordance with the criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
20. 
“Tenge” means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Section  3.01 shall read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end 
fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”).” 
2. 
A new paragraph (d) is included in Section 3.02 Interest which shall read 
as follows: 
“(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the Default 
Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan 
Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a 
result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default 
Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be 
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.” 
3.  
Appendix “Definitions” is amended as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 19 “Commitment Charge”
is deleted, and subsequent 
paragraphs are re-numbered accordingly. 
(b) 
New paragraphs 27, 28, 29 and 30 are added to the Appendix:
“27. 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount 
remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall 
commence on the 31st day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, 
18
and the final such Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is 
fully paid.”
28. 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%).” 
29. 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
3.02 first becomes overdue. 
30. 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable 
Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
(c) 
Paragraph 43 “Fixed Spread” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“43. 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan 
Currency in effect at 12:0 1 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the 
Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided 
further that notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest 
is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
19
(d) 
Paragraph 56 “LIBOR Reset Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read 
as follows: 
“56. 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means: (a) for any Loan Currency other than Euro, 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period 
(or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in 
which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two London Banking Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency 
other than Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the first 
or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day 
immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on 
the first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved 
Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date); (b) 
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest 
Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period for a Variable Spread Loan, the day 
two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month 
in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to Euro falls on a day other 
than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in 
which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion 
Date; provided that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such 
month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); and (c)  notwithstanding sub-paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, for a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the 
Bank determines that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR Reset Date is 
20
on a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be 
such other date, as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”
(e) 
Paragraph 66 “Loan Payment” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“66. 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not 
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, 
interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction 
fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
 
(f) 
Paragraph 71 “Payment Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“71. 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.” 
