CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7587-PA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Equity and Performance Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 30, 2008 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7587-PA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 30, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $ 40,000,000 (forty million Dollars), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MINSA in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on February 5, 2010. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
Facsímile: (507) 507-7200 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Panama City, Panama, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By: 
/s/ Héctor E. Alexander H. 
 
 
By: 
/s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a) increasing access of 
populations in selected underserved rural communities of its territory to quality basic 
health services known to improve mother and child health and (b) developing strategic 
planning, regulatory and monitoring mechanisms known to improve health system 
performance.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1:  Increasing Access to Basic Health Care Services 
The financing of Capitation Transfers to MINSA to help ensure access by 
eligible beneficiaries to a package of basic health services (PBHS) comprising inter alia,
preventive and health care services and education and health promotion benefits as set 
forth under the Borrower’s program of health protection for vulnerable populations 
(PSPV). 
 
Part 2:  Increasing Responsiveness of Primary Health Services Networks 
2.1. 
The strengthening of MINSA’s health regions’ management capacity to develop 
 
and implement primary health care in the Borrower’s territory through, inter alia,
training and the provision of technical advisory services for:  
 
(a) 
the carrying out of assessments of MINSA’s health regions’ intervention 
capacity  in human resources, equipment and infrastructure;  
 
(b) 
the elaboration and ensuing implementation of annual operating plans 
regarding: (i) the management of the supply chain of pharmaceuticals for 
the delivery of ambulatory primary health services at the regional level; 
and (ii) the reduction of barriers to access primary health services in rural 
areas of the Borrower’s territory; and 
 
(c) 
the development of an accreditation system for primary health care 
facilities in underserved rural areas. 
 
2.2. 
The improvement in the delivery of existing PBHS to vulnerable populations 
living in underserved rural areas through, inter alia:
(a) 
the provision of technical advisory services in relation to the assessment 
and updating of health priorities, the PBHS, its delivery model and its 
costing; 
 
6
(b) 
the carrying out of small civil works for the refurbishment of, and  the 
provision of goods and medical equipment to, existing facilities; 
 
(c) 
the provision of technical advisory services for the development of: (i) 
the initial implementation of a continuous training program for 
community health workers; and (ii) strategies for early identification and 
transportation of critical-condition patients; and 
 
(d) 
the implementation in selected primary health care facilities in 
underserved rural areas of a pilot program of telemedicine in primary 
health services. 
 
Part 3:  Enhancing MINSA’s Institutional Capacity to Exercise its Stewardship over
the Health Sector
3.1. 
The strengthening of MINSA’s capacity for developing and implementing 
strategic plans to improve performance in the health sector through, inter alia:
(a) 
the carrying out of national surveys to provide information for strategic 
planning; 
 
(b) 
 the development of a national strategy to improve equity in access to 
quality health services; and 
 
(c) 
the development of a national strategy for improving the procurement, 
quality control and distribution of pharmaceuticals and the elaboration of 
short and medium term action plans focusing on primary health care 
medicine. 
 
3.2. 
The carrying out of activities to update the current legal framework for health, 
including any enforcement mechanisms in relation thereto. 
 
3.3. 
The strengthening of MINSA’s capacity to develop and manage an integrated 
and comprehensive MIS to improve performance in the health sector through the 
provision of goods, training and technical advisory services for, inter alia:
(a) 
the operation of, inter alia, a database of beneficiaries, data on external 
audits, and  the Capitation Transfers; 
 
(b) 
timely decision-making at MINSA’s regional and national levels in 
relation to the monitoring of the delivery of primary health care goods 
and services and assessment of results; and 
 
(c) 
the management of fiduciary aspects of the Project, by MINSA’s  
UGAF, and the coordination of overall Project activities. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1
The Borrower shall maintain within MINSA during the implementation of the 
Project, relevant structures and units described in the OM, among which, selected 
ones mentioned hereunder for the exclusive functions described hereunder, all of 
which shall consist of staff having experience and qualifications satisfactory at 
all times to the Bank, including staff appointed in accordance with the provisions 
of Section III of this Schedule and made responsible specifically for:  
 
(a) 
the technical implementation of Part 1 of the Project by Regional 
Management Units through the carrying out of Performance Agreements 
entered into with  MINSA;  
 
(b) 
(i) the financial, procurement, auditing, monitoring and reporting matters 
relevant to the administration of the Project; and (ii) the coordination of 
overall Project activities, by UGAF of MINSA, including the preparation 
of annual Project work plans, internal audit plans and budgets by UGAF 
of MINSA to be furnished to the Bank for its review and thereafter 
implemented with diligence and efficiency, taking into account the 
Bank’s comments and recommendations thereon; and 
 
(c) 
addressing, through CODIPRO, technical issues and constraints in 
respect of Project implementation. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
through MINSA’s National Directorate of Health Services Delivery, 
enter into annual Performance Agreements with each RMU participating 
in the Project, which agreement shall include, inter alia:
(i) 
the RMU’s obligation to: 
 
(A) 
carry out the Performance Agreement and to meet the 
performance benchmarks specified or referred to therein; 
 
(B) 
ensure, under the Capitation Transfers payment 
mechanism,  that only services related to the delivery of 
the PBHS are being paid for;  
8
(C) 
keep records and accounts of expenditures incurred for 
the delivery of the PBHS;  
 
(D) 
undertake selected data collection activities relevant to 
the maintenance and update of the MIS for the Project, 
with a view to generate information pertinent to the 
implementation of Part 1 of this project; and 
 
(b) 
(i) 
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each 
Performance Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan; and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower through 
MINSA, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, 
waive or fail to enforce any Performance Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall ensure, through MINSA, that the annual 
 
Performance Agreements for the Project are submitted to the Bank for its 
 
prior review and approval. 
 
B. 
Implementation Documents 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower has, through MINSA, adopted a Project operational 
 
manual dated  June 20, 2008, satisfactory to the Bank,  therein setting 
 
forth rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and  procedures for 
 
the carrying out of the relevant parts of the Project, including the 
 
following: 
 
(i) 
(A) the detailed description of Project implementation activities, 
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto; and (B) the detailed institutional 
arrangements in respect thereof;  
 
(ii) 
(A) the criteria, costing mechanism, detailed rules and 
procedures for: (1) Capitation Transfers; and (2) the delivery of 
PBHS by the RMUs under Performance Agreements to be 
entered with MINSA; (B) details of the contents and procedures 
for the carrying out of all financial, technical, and social audits 
of Project activities related to the delivery of PBHS; and (C) a 
detailed description of all the health services of the PBHS; 
 
(iii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, 
financial, including cash flow aspects in relation thereto, 
9
procurement and disbursement procedures, including all 
pertinent standard documents and model contracts in relation 
thereto, including draft performance agreements;  
 
(iv) 
the EMP and the IPP for the Project;  
 
(v) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project, 
including all environmental, physical, social and information 
technology-related aspects in relation thereto; and 
 
(vi) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MINSA, carry out the Project in accordance 
with the OM. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the OM shall conflict with any one under this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The OM may only be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written 
consent. 
 
C. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MINSA, prior to a request for financing of Capitation 
Transfers, shall: (a) establish a separate Capitation Transfer fund account; and 
(b) ensure that all amounts deposited in the Capitation Transfer Fund account 
are used exclusively to make payments for ensuring access to the PBHS to 
eligible beneficiaries. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MINSA, shall: 
 
(a) 
promptly after the Effective Date, enter annually into a performance 
agreement with each participating RMU (the Annual Performance 
Agreement) setting forth, inter alia: (i) financing mechanisms for the 
delivery of PBHS in the corresponding health region; (ii) annual targets 
in respect of the PSPV results  monitoring indicators; and (iii) annual 
work programs for implementation of the project, all on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
make Capitation Transfers available to participating RMUs in 
accordance with detailed provisions, procedures, sequencing and timing  
in relation thereto set forth in  the Operational Manual, and to include, 
inter alia, the following requirements: 
 
10
(i) 
during a period ending eight months after a first request for 
withdrawal shall have been made by the Borrower out of 
Category 1 of the table set forth in Section IV. A. 2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, MINSA, shall within two months thereof, 
proceed to make available 100% of the Capitation Transfers in 
respect of eligible beneficiaries after validation is made of the 
estimated number of eligible beneficiaries in each of the 
Borrower’s participating health region;  
 
(ii) 
thereafter, the Capitation Transfers shall be made available to the 
health regions in two installments . The first such installment 
shall be 65% thereof, paid every two months upon certification 
and validation by MINSA of a registry of eligible beneficiaries 
sent by the participating RMU for the corresponding two month 
period. The second installment for the remaining 35% thereof,  
shall be paid every four months upon verification by MINSA of 
the participating RMUs performance  against agreed targets from 
the PSPV results monitoring indicators, all as set forth in the 
Operational Manual and the Annual Performance Agreements; 
and  
 
(iii) 
the certification and validation of the estimated number of 
eligible beneficiaries and of  RMUs performance against agreed 
targets from the PSPV results monitoring indicators shall be 
made by MINSA through the use of independent external 
technical audits to run concurrently with the implementation of 
the relevant activities under Part 1 of the Project and to be 
carried out by auditors  appointed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, such 
audit reports  to be furnished to the Bank on a bi-annual basis; 
 
(c) 
(i) verify, through the use of financial audits to be carried out by 
independent auditors appointed in accordance with Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference 
previously agreed with the Bank and as further specified in the 
Operational Manual, that the Capitation Transfers have been used for the 
purposes intended (ii) ensure, as part of such audits, that the flow of 
funds in respect of the Capitation Transfers is in compliance with the 
relevant provisions of the Operational Manual; and (iii) ensure that the 
ensuing reports  are furnished to the Bank on a bi-annual basis; and 
 
(d) 
ensure that, under each budget proposal to its legislature for the 
corresponding 
year 
during 
Project 
implementation, 
adequate 
arrangements are made by the Borrower to gradually assume a portion of 
11
the costs related to the Capitation Transfers which are financed on a 
declining basis out of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in category 1 
of the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MINSA, shall ensure that: (a) annual reviews of selected 
activities of Project implementation described in the Operational Manual, 
including the Capitation Transfers mechanism, the menu of services of the PBHS 
and the PSPV results monitoring indicators, are carried out jointly with the Bank; 
and (b) the implementation of the Project is subsequently carried out applying the 
views and recommendations of the Bank in that respect.  
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall, further to the provisions of paragraph B.1 (a) of this Section, 
specifically ensure, through UGAF of MINSA, that: (a) the Project is carried out 
in accordance with the EMP and the IPP prepared for the Project; and (b) the 
provisions addressing indigenous peoples concerns in the implementation of the 
Project as set forth in the Operational Manual are carried out as agreed with the 
Bank.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through UGAF of MINSA, monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the OM.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than January 15, 2014. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through UGAF of MINSA, maintain or cause to be 
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
12
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare through UGAF of MINSA and shall ensure thereafter that MINSA 
furnishes to the Bank as part of the Project Report Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank not later than one month after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through UGAF of MINSA, have the Financial Statements 
for the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of 
the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in 
which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
4. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall, through UGAF of MINSA, carry out a time-bound action plan 
dated March 12, 2008 agreed with the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system of MINSA for the Project. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-
consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Non-consultant services shall be procured under 
13
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and subject 
to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
prior registration, obtaining a license or an authorization shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures; 
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
 
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and Non 
consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB)  subject to the following  provisions: 
 
(i)  standard bidding documents for NCB, acceptable to the Bank, should be used; 
 
(ii)  foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as a 
 
prerequisite for bidding; 
 
(iii)  no bids or proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made 
 
at the time of bid opening; 
 
(iv)  the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
 
(v)  the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
 
meeting as a condition to bid; and 
 
(vi) potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids which should 
 
not be less than 30 days, except for commodities and contracts for small 
 
goods and Non-consultant services. 
14
Procurement Method 
(b) Shopping, subject to the following provisions: 
 
(i)  foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local  
 
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting quotations; and 
 
(ii)  a minimum of three quotations shall be obtained as a condition to  
 
award the contract. 
 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior written consent 
 
(d) Community Participation for Part 3 of the Project, as further set forth in the OM. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection . 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
3. 
Special provisions. All methods of procurement of consultants’ services shall be 
carried out subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
foreign firms shall not be required to be registered with local authorities 
as a prerequisite for submitting proposals; 
 
(b) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to furnish any certificate issued 
by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status for the 
purposes of submitting a proposal; and 
 
15
(c) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to submit their proposals in 
person. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be 
subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to: (a) repay the Project Preparation 
Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 (a) of the General Conditions; and (b) 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Capitation 
Transfers 
under 
 
Part 1 of the Project; 
 
25,795,400 
 
90% until the second year in 
Project implementation 
starting from the Effective 
Date; thereafter cascading 
downward annually to 85%, 
75%; and 60% until reaching 
40% of amounts disbursed by 
the Borrower.  
 
16
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(2) Goods, works, Non- consultant 
 
services,  consultants’ services, 
 
Training and Operating Costs 
 
under Part 2 of the Project 
 
6,205,400 
 
66% 
(3) Goods, works, Non-consultant 
 
services,  consultants’ services, 
 
Training and Operating Costs 
 
under Part 3 of the Project 
 
6,987,950 
 
65% 
(4) Refund of the Project 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
761,250 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (a) of the General 
Conditions 
(5) Unallocated 
 
250,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
40,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account (other than to repay the Project Preparation 
Advance) until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end 
Fee;  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
under Category (1) until and unless the Borrower has furnished to the 
Bank the information referred to in  Section I.C. of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 
 
17
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2013 
 
through December 15, 2022 
 
4.38 % 
Beginning June 15, 2023 
 
through June 15, 2028 
 
1.06 % 
On December 15, 2028 
0.74 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
18
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
19
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
Capitation Transfers” means financial resources transferred by MINSA under the 
Project to participating RMUs (as hereinafter defined), calculated as a monthly 
per capita amount needed to ensure access of Eligible Beneficiaries (as 
hereinafter defined) to the PBHS (as hereinafter defined), as further referred to in 
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
3. 
“Capitation Transfer Fund account” means the account opened and managed by 
MINSA to receive Capitation Transfers out of the proceeds of the Loan to be 
disbursed pursuant to terms and conditions set forth in the OM (as hereinafter 
defined).   
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CODIPRO” means Comité Directivo de Proyectos, the Borrower’s technical 
coordination board referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
7. 
“Eligible Beneficiaries” mean all individuals from poor households living in 
targeted, underserved communities of the Borrower’s territory, which are eligible 
to receive the PBHS (as hereinafter defined). 
8. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, including therein the 
medical waste management plan, prepared by the Borrower to identify and 
mitigate potential adverse environmental effects of Project implementation, dated 
June 05, 2008 and disclosed to the public on the same date therewith. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
20
10. 
“IPP” means the Indigenous People’s Plan prepared by the Borrower to ensure 
that the Project objectives and activities benefit the indigenous people of the 
Borrower’s territory, dated April 30, 2008 and disclosed to the public on May 15, 
2008.  
 
11. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Ministry of economy and 
Finance of the Borrower. 
 
12. 
“MINSA” means Ministerio de Salud, the Ministry of Health of the Borrower. 
 
13. 
“MIS” means monitoring and information system.  
 
14. 
“Non-consultant services” means, in respect of Categories 2 and 3 in the table of 
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, services to be contracted for the 
carrying out of activities related to the carrying out of, inter alia, social 
communication campaigns, including surveys and outreach programs and 
information Technology (IT) connection.  
 
15. 
“OM” and “Operational Manual” mean a manual for Project implementation as 
referred to in Section I.B.1(a)  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Operating costs” means in respect of Category 2 and 3 in the table in Section 
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, insurance costs, office administration costs, 
utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs and salaries of locally contracted 
employees. 
 
17. 
“PBHS” means a package of basic health services to be delivered under Part 1 of 
the Project to eligible beneficiaries in selected underserved rural areas of the 
Borrower’s territory. 
 
18. 
“Performance Agreement” means an agreement entered into between MINSA 
and an RMU(as hereinafter defined)  for the delivery of PBHS to eligible 
beneficiaries, as referred to in Section  I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement  
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 20, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
21
21. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) 
of the General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the 
letter agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on May, 01, 2008 and on behalf of 
the Borrower on May 09, 2008. 
 
22. 
“Project Year” means each twelve month period during Project Implementation 
starting from the day after the Effective Date and ending twelve calendar months 
thereafter, and each subsequent twelve month period thereafter until completion 
of the Project. 
 
23. 
“PSPV” means Protección en Salud para Poblaciones Vulnerables, the 
Borrower’s 2008 Program for the health protection of individuals from 
vulnerable groups of the population. 
 
24. 
“Regional Management Unit” and “RMU” mean a regional unit of MINSA 
responsible for health services delivery in each participating health region of the 
Borrower’s territory.  
 
25. 
“Training” means in respect of Categories 2 and 3 in the table in Section IV.A.2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by community health workers; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals; 
and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution 
expenses.  
 
26. 
“UGAF” means Unidad de Gestión Administrativa y Financiera, the 
Administrative and Financial Management Unit of MINSA. 
 
