CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4883 KZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Technology Transfer and Institutional Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 2, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4883 KZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 2, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN  
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred seventeen million 
seven hundred thousand Dollars ($117,700,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due, and such non payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest paid by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoH in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
11 Pobedy Street 
Astana 010000 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
265126 (FILIN)  
(7) (3172) 717785 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
3
AGREED at Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By: /s/ Bolat Zhamishev 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Shigeo Katsu 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to introduce international standards and build 
long-term institutional capacity in the MoH and related healthcare institutions in support 
of key health sector reforms pursued by the Borrower in the context of the State Health 
Care Reform and Development Program. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Health Financing and Management 
Provision of technical assistance, goods, works, and training to: (i) improve the 
capacity for health policy and strategy formulation in the MoH; (ii) upgrade budgeting, 
planning, and purchasing capacity in the health sector; and (iii) strengthen the capacity of 
health care managers as well as improve investment planning capacity in the health 
sector.  
 
Part B: Health Care Quality Improvement
Provision of technical assistance, goods, works, and training to: (i) establish an 
accreditation system for health care facilities; (ii) upgrade clinical practice through the 
development, review, and dissemination of clinical practice guidelines, and to introduce 
health technology assessment; (iii) reform the laboratory service through the development 
and introduction of structural, regulatory and infrastructure planning reforms; and (iv) 
reform the blood transfusion service through the development and introduction of 
structural and regulatory and infrastructure planning reforms.  
 
Part C: Reform of Medical Education and Science
Provision of technical assistance, goods, works, and training to: (i) reform 
undergraduate and continuing medical education, including through a review of the 
medical education system, improvement of admissions regulations, the creation of quality 
assurance system, establishment of a training system in evidence-based medicine, 
development of a program for reform of post-diploma medical education and continuous 
professional development, improvement of certification and licensing systems, and 
improvement of the medical education financing system; and (ii) upgrade the medical and 
health science research system. 
 
Part D: Health Information System Development 
Provision of technical assistance, goods, works, and training to develop and 
deploy an integrated health information system for patient, resource and financial 
management. 
5
Part E: Pharmaceutical Policy Reform 
Provision of technical assistance, goods, works, and training to strengthen drug 
policy, including through a restructuring of the benefit system, the introduction of price 
control methods, a review of counterfeit and substandard drug proliferation, the 
establishment of institutional mechanisms to promote rational prescribing, and evidence-
based analysis to remove outdated and unreliable drugs from the market. 
 
Part F: Food Safety and WTO Accession 
Provision of technical assistance, goods, works, and training to develop and 
introduce a system for assurance of food safety in compliance with WTO requirements. 
 
Part G: Project Management 
Provision of technical assistance, goods, works, and training to support Project 
coordination, implementation and management. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following 
institutional and other arrangements: 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MoH, shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and operational procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
provisions of the Operational Manual without prior approval of the Bank. 
2
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain the CCT and the PIST with a composition, resources, and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
Not later than July 1, 2008, the Borrower shall: (a) establish the Health Policy 
Council with a composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) 
thereafter maintain the Health Policy Council with sufficient and suitable human, 
financial and technical resources satisfactory to the Bank, until its functions are fully 
implemented. 
4. 
Not later than July 1, 2008, the Borrower shall appoint a financial management 
consultant on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to assist the DEF with 
implementation of the Project. 
5. 
Not later than July 1, 2008, the Borrower shall adopt the Operational Manual. 
6. 
In order to ensure that adequate funds are available to cover the Borrower’s 
contribution to the Project, the Borrower shall make the appropriate annual budget 
allocations to the MoH, for a total Project cost of $296,000,000 of which the anticipated 
contribution by the Borrower to the Project is $178,300,000 (including the Front-end 
Fee). 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
7
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Project Closing Date. 
 
3. 
On or about January 5, 2011, the Borrower, through the MoH, shall carry out 
jointly with the Bank, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
(hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover, 
amongst other things: 
 
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through the MoH, shall prepare at least four (4) weeks prior to the 
Midterm Review, and furnish to the Bank, a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
8
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section II of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth in the 
Attachment to this Schedule 2 
 
(b)   
Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
9
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  
Least Cost Selection 
(d)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  
Single-source Selection 
(f)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
10
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
1.  Goods and Works 
 
68,200,000 
100% 
2. Training, and 
Consultants’ Services  
 
49,300,000 
100% 
3.  Operating Costs 
 
200,000 
100% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
117,700,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
 
(a)  
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-End Fee; and  
 
(b)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 
 
11
Attachment to   
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding procedures of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
A. 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises
Government-owned enterprises on the territory of the Borrower shall be eligible 
to participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
 
B. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods acceptable to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents; 
 
(c) 
domestic preference should not be applied; and 
 
(d) 
contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall 
take place. 
 
D. 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (for example, more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
E. 
Cancellation of the Bidding Process
Non-recognition of a tender and soliciting new bids can be done only with the 
prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
12
F. 
Rejection of an Individual Bid
An individual bid shall be rejected only in the following cases: 
 
(a) 
the bidder is not qualified; 
 
(b) 
the bidder does not accept the correction of an arithmetical error in his 
bid by the Tender Commission of the procuring entity; and 
 
(c) 
the bidder is not responsive to the requirements of the bidding 
documents. 
 
13
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars)
On each January15 and July 15 
 
 
beginning July 15, 2013  
through January 15, 2023 
5,885,000 
 
14
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“CCT” means the Core Coordination Team, comprised of staff from the MoH 
and the MoEPB, responsible for the administration of each component of the 
Project, and the facilitation of interaction between the MoH and MoEBP 
regarding issues of policy and implementation. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“DEF” means the Department of Economics and Finance within the MoH of the 
Borrower or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Health Policy Council” means the council to be established within the MoH or 
any successor or successors thereto pursuant to Section I.3 of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement, responsible for strategic oversight and guidance of Project 
implementation, and as satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
7. 
“MoEBP” means the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Borrower 
or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
8. 
“MoF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
 
9. 
“MoH” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
 
10. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the MoH on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including staff 
salaries and consultancy costs, Training, conferences, study tours and seminars, 
dissemination of Project related information, office rent and utilities, office and 
equipment insurance, maintenance and repair, vehicle maintenance and repair, 
travel, security, communication, bank charges, and other miscellaneous costs 
directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
15
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the Project operational manual satisfactory to the 
Bank to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section I, paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement, describing procedures for implementation of the 
Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national 
laws and regulations of the Borrower and including, inter alia: (i) procedures 
governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, and 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (ii) sample formats for annual reports; 
(iii) model bidding documents; and (iv) a Project-wide capacity building plan; as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“PIST” means the Project Implementation Support Team responsible for the 
daily implementation of each component or subcomponent of the Project, 
reporting to the Director of the Department of Strategic Development and 
International Cooperation of the MoH, or any successor or successors, and whose 
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 5, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“State Health Care Reform and Development Program” means the National 
Program of Health Sector Reform and Development of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan for 2005-2010, approved by Presidential Decree # 1438 on 
September 13, 2004, and subsequent national programs of health sector reform 
and development of the Borrower. 
 
16. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment 
rental, travel, per diem costs of trainees, trainers and trainers’ fees, and 
interpretation and translation services. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Section  3.01 shall read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end 
fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”).” 
16
2. 
A new paragraph (d) is included in Section 3.02 Interest which shall read 
as follows: 
“(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the Default 
Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan 
Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a 
result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default 
Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be 
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.” 
3.  
Appendix  “Definitions” is amended as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 19 “Commitment Charge”
is deleted, and subsequent 
paragraphs are re-numbered accordingly. 
(b) 
New paragraphs 27, 28, 29 and 30 are added to the Appendix:
“27. 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount 
remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall 
commence on the 31st day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, 
and the final such Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is 
fully paid.” 
28. 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%).” 
29. 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
17
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
3.02 first becomes overdue. 
30. 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable 
Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
(c) 
Paragraph 43 “Fixed Spread” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“43. 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan 
Currency in effect at 12:0 1 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the 
Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided 
further that notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest 
is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
(d) 
Paragraph 56 “LIBOR Reset Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read 
as follows: 
“56. 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means: (a) for any Loan Currency other than Euro, 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period 
(or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in 
which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two London Banking Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency 
other than Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the first 
or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day 
immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on 
the first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved 
Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date); (b) 
18
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest 
Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period for a Variable Spread Loan, the day 
two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month 
in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day 
of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the 
day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth 
day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days 
prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to Euro falls on a day other 
than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in 
which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion 
Date; provided that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such 
month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); and (c)  notwithstanding sub-paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, for a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the 
Bank determines that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR Reset Date is 
on a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be 
such other date, as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”
(e) 
Paragraph 66 “Loan Payment” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“66. 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not 
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, 
interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction 
fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
(f) 
Paragraph 71 “Payment Date” (as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“71. 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.” 
