CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7515-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Student Loan Support Project) 
APL Phase I 
 
between 
 
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO EDUCATIVO Y  
ESTUDIOS TECNICOS EN EL EXTERIOR -  ICETEX 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 14, 2008 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7515-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 14, 2008, between INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO 
EDUCATIVO Y ESTUDIOS TECNICOS EN EL EXTERIOR - ICETEX (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
 
WHEREAS the Borrower has delivered to the Bank a letter dated December 13, 2007 
(recorded under ACCES UCP 4907-07), describing the Borrower’s strategy to strengthen its 
student assistance program for tertiary education (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of such Program; and 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s execution 
of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately six (6) years to be 
utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
 
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
-2- 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that  the 
Guarantor (in its legal opinion) issued by counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicate that the 
Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
on behalf of, the Guarantor and is legally binding in accordance with its terms. 
-3- 
 
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on September 4, 
2009. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the President of ICETEX. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
ICETEX 
Carrera Tercera No. 1832 
Bogota, Colombia 
 
Facsimile:  
 
+571-599 6323 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
-4- 
 
AGREED at the city of Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO EDUCATIVO 
Y ESTUDIOS TECNICOS EN EL EXTERIOR -  ICETEX 
 
By /s/ Marta Lucía Villegas 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Program are to: (a) improve coverage by increasing the enrollment 
and graduation rates of students in tertiary education; (b) improve equity by increasing enrollment 
and graduation rates of tertiary education students from economically disadvantaged 
backgrounds; and (c) increase and diversify the sources of alternative funding available to the 
Borrower in order to increase the Borrower’s financial sustainability. 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the following parts 
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to 
time to achieve such objectives. 
 
Part 1: Expanding Equity and Access to Tertiary Education
(a) 
Provision of loans to Eligible Students to finance their enrollment and tuition in 
Eligible Tertiary Institutions to pursue Tertiary Education. 
 
(b) 
Execution of Tertiary Institution Agreements. 
 
Part 2. Institutional Strengthening
(a) 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s loan administration, portfolio management and 
collection procedures through, inter alia, the upgrading of its data technology (hardware and 
software). 
 
(b) 
Provision of support for the Borrower’s long-term sustainability through, inter 
alia, the carrying out of studies to expand its funding base and to continue internal reform 
processes to lower administrative costs, improve credit quality and increase loan collection rates. 
 
(c) 
Provision of support for overall Project coordination, evaluation, supervision and 
implementation, including, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of audits; and (ii) the carrying out of 
studies to measure the Program’s impact indicators. 
 
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, specific 
provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including:  
 
(i) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements thereof;  
 
(ii) 
the criteria and methods for the selection of the Eligible Students; 
 
(iii) 
the criteria and methods for the selection, approval, implementation and 
monitoring of the Tertiary Education Loans; 
 
(iv) 
the model forms for the Tertiary Education Agreements; 
 
(v) 
the IPPF; and  
 
(vi) 
the Key Performance Indicators;  
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written approval. If any provision 
of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a provision of this Agreement, the provision of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, an implementation team, 
with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
responsibility of said team to coordinate and monitor the carrying out of the Project; 
 
(b) 
ensure that the IT is, at all times during Project implementation, led by a Project 
coordinator and is assisted by adequate professional and administrative staff (including 
procurement and financial specialists), in numbers and with experience and qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
-7- 
 
C. 
Student Loans 
1. 
Prior to the first disbursement of a Tertiary Education Loan, the Borrower shall 
enter into an agreement (Pagaré y Carta de Instrucciones) with each Eligible Student, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (as outlined in the Operational Manual). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each 
Tertiary Education Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any 
Tertiary Education Agreement (or any provision thereof). 
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of any Tertiary Education Agreement 
and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
4. 
If the Bank determines at any time, through regular Project supervision or 
auditing, that an amount of the Loan, disbursed pursuant to Category (1) in the table in Section IV 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, was not used by the Borrower to finance the Tertiary Education 
Loans under Part 1(a) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Bank additional 
evidence, as the Bank may request, to justify the use of said amount of the Loan; or (b) promptly 
refund to the Bank the corresponding portion of the Loan for inclusion in the Loan Account. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the Key Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one 
month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements and Project Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the Project becomes effective.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period. 
-8- 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than National Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional procedures set forth in 
paragraph 3 of this section) 
Shopping 
3. 
(a) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish or 
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank for approval, appropriate model bidding 
documents.  Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be used, said 
model bidding documents, as approved for bidding under the Project. Any change or 
departure from the model approved shall require Bank’s prior approval. 
 
(b) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or group of 
bidders for bid evaluation purposes.  Bidders shall be allowed to submit their bids by 
hand or through the post office or private mailing services.  There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in the Guarantor’s territory or 
elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in the Guarantor’s territory, unless 
and until such bidder is awarded the corresponding contract. 
-9- 
 
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents. 
(d)  
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of capability 
and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such determination 
shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation 
criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the amount or 
amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and the 
quantified manner in which they will be applied for purposes of determining the lowest 
evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid 
evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall 
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction of 
arithmetic errors. 
(e) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.47 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder’s written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder.  Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
-10- 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Tertiary Education Loans 
 
under Part 1 of the Project 
 
293,700,000 
100% 
of 
the 
amounts 
disbursed by the Borrower to 
Eligible Students 
 
(2) Goods, consultant’s  
 
services and operating 
 
costs under Part 2 of the 
 
Project 
 
6,300,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
300,000,000 
 
For the purposes of this Section IV, the term “operating costs” means the reasonable costs of 
communications, office supply and utilities, travel, transportation and per diem directly related to 
the performance of the Project activities, which would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or  
 
-11- 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made within twelve (12) months of this Agreement, but in no case prior to 
November 13, 2007. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
-12- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay each 
Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first 
such installment to be payable on the thirteenth (13th) Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on 
the forty-fifth (45th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one thirty-third (1/33nd) of 
said Disbursed Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount 
of said Disbursed Amount.  
 
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after October 15, 2033, the Borrower 
shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each Disbursed 
Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the event 
of Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved Currency, 
the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any Principal 
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by 
either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan 
Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
-13- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Eligible Student” means a Tertiary Education (as hereinafter defined) student who is 
eligible to benefit from the loans referred to in Part 1(a) of the Project in accordance with 
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined).  
 
5. 
“Eligible Tertiary Institution” means an institution which provides Tertiary Education (as 
hereinafter defined) and meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
(as hereinafter defined). 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 17, 2007). 
 
7. 
“IPPF” means the indigenous peoples development framework for the Project, dated 
December 6 , 2007, that details an action plan to assist indigenous peoples and afro-
colombians to overcome barriers to access to tertiary education, as said plan may be 
updated from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower. 
 
8. 
“IT” means the implementation team referred to in Section I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and evaluating 
progress towards the attainment of Project objectives. 
 
10. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, dated December 26, 2007, referred 
to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 13, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
-14- 
 
13. 
 “Tertiary Education  Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Tertiary Education Loan” means any of the loans to be provided by the Borrower to an 
Eligible Student under the relevant Tertiary Education Agreement and included in Part 
1(a) of the Project. 
 
15. 
“Tertiary Institution Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into, or an existing 
agreement to be amended by the Borrower, with an Eligible Tertiary Institution, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to: (i) increase support and services for low-
income students; (ii) help students manage education loans; (iii) foster a culture of 
repayment among students; (iv) support collection efforts after graduation; and (v) co-
finance tuition (in some cases). 
 
