CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7496-EC 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Chimborazo Development Investment Project (PIDD)) 
 
between 
 
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF CHIMBORAZO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 18, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7496-EC 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 18, 2008, between the PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF 
CHIMBORAZO 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifteen million three hundred 
thousand Dollars ($15,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that the 
 
Provincial Regimen Law has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
 
waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the 
 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
Such suspension shall continue until the Additional Event of Suspension has 
 
ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan Parties that such right to 
 
make withdrawals has been restored, as referred to in Section 7.02 of the General 
 
Conditions. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs.  
 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
 
the Borrower has complied with Article 30 and 31 of the Executive Decree No. 
 
611 by: (a) entering into the trust agreement referred to in said Article 30; and (b) 
 
entering into the restitution agreement referred to in said Article 30 and in said 
 
Article 31. 
 
5.02. 
The following is specified as an Additional Legal Matter, to be included in the 
 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank by the Guarantor, namely, that 
 
the Borrower has complied with Section 5.01 above. 
 
5.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on June 8, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Prefecto of the Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Primera Constituyente Y Carabobo 
 
Riobamba, Ecuador 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
592 (03) 2947397 
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF CHIMBORAZO 
 
By /s/ Mariano Curicama 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ Newton Mestanza 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase production and market access of rural 
families living in the Chambo and Chanchan-Chimbo river basins in the Borrower’s 
territory, through investments in irrigation and roads improvement.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Productive Investments
A. 
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Improvements 
 
(a) 
Carrying out, with the assistance of TAPs, dissemination activities to 
 
promote the Irrigation Subprojects. 
 
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance and training to the Borrower for the 
 
identification, evaluation and selection of Irrigation Subprojects 
 
according to the eligibility criteria detailed in the Operational Manual. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out the works and provision of technical assistance and training 
 
to the WUAs for the operation, maintenance and management of the 
 
Selected Irrigation Subprojects. 
 
B. 
Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance 
 
(a) 
Carrying out of rehabilitation and improvement works of the Riobamba-
Cebadas Road and the Charicando-Turubamba Road. 
 
(b) 
Provision of technical assistance and training to the MEMRs for the 
carrying out of routine maintenance works on the roads referred to in (a) 
above and other local roads in the Borrower’s territory.  
 
Part 2: Project Management 
Strengthening of the institutional and technical capacity of the Borrower, through 
the provision of technical assistance, training and goods (including office equipment), 
for, inter alia: (i) Project management and coordination, monitoring and evaluation; and 
(ii) dissemination of Project information.  
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Implementation Agreements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 1.A (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
 
enter into a separate agreement with each WUA responsible for the Selected 
 
Irrigation Subproject, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (the 
 
“Subproject Implementation Agreement”), which shall provide, inter alia, the 
 
terms and conditions for the carrying out of the Selected Irrigation Subproject, in 
 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Operational Manual, 
 
including the WUA’s obligations to carry out the operation, management and 
 
maintenance of the Selected Irrigation Subproject in accordance with the terms 
 
and requirements of the Operational Manual and the Borrower’s obligation to 
 
procure the goods, works and services for the execution of the Selected Irrigation 
 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Subproject 
 
Implementation Agreements, in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as 
 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
 
waive or fail to enforce any of the Subproject Implementation Agreements or any 
 
provision thereof. 
B. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
a Project Operational Team, within the Borrower’s Dirección De Obras 
Publicas, to provide support to the Borrower for the implementation and 
coordination of the Project, supervised by a Project coordinator, and with 
powers, staffing and structure acceptable to the Bank as defined in the 
Operational Manual (the “POT”). The POT shall be responsible, inter 
alia, for:  
 
(i) 
overall responsibility for planning, coordinating, implementing 
and monitoring of Project activities; 
 
(ii) 
carrying out of Project procurement and contracting of the 
required works, goods and consultant’s services with the 
assistance of the TAPs; 
 
7
(iii) 
revision and updating of the Operational Manual; 
 
(iv) 
preparation of the progress semi-annual reports and annual 
operational plans to be submitted to the PAC; and 
 
(v) 
provision of technical advice to the PAC for the selection of the 
Irrigation Subprojects. 
 
(b) 
a Project Advisory Committee, presided by the Borrower’s Prefecto or 
its designated representative, with the overall responsibility for providing 
policy oversight and guidance for the implementation of the Project and 
with powers and composition acceptable to the Bank as defined in the 
Operational Manual (the “PAC").  The PAC shall be responsible, inter 
alia, for:  
 
(i) 
provision of support and establishment of strategic guidelines for 
the implementation of the Project; 
 
(ii) 
inter-institutional coordination and establishment of strategic 
alliances with other stakeholders; 
 
(iii) 
approval of the appointment of the Project’s coordinator; 
 
(iv) 
review and approval of the annual operation plans for the 
Project; 
 
(v) 
review and approval of the semi-annual progress and evaluation 
reports for the Project and the Project’s implementation 
completion report;  
 
(vi) 
review of the annual auditing reports of the Project; 
 
(vii) 
approval of the Selected Irrigation Subprojects; and 
 
(viii) 
provision of support to the Borrower in the design and 
implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system for the 
Project.  
 
C.  
Manual 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational 
 
manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), such manual to 
 
include, inter alia:
(a) 
the Project’s organization structure; 
8
(b) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the procurement, disbursement, financial management, 
social and environmental requirements thereof);  
 
(c) 
the administrative rules and procedures for preparing, proposing, 
evaluating, selecting, contracting, financing, carrying out and supervising 
the activities financed under Part 1. A (c) of the Project, including the 
criteria and procedures for selecting the Irrigation Subprojects and the 
obligation of the WUAs to co-finance at least 5% in cash and the 
unskilled labor and 20% of the construction materials of the civil works 
cost of implementation of each of the Selected Irrigation Subprojects; 
 
(d) 
the IPPF and the EMP (including provisions regarding the protection of 
natural habitats, forests, and pest management); and 
 
(e) 
the Performance Indicators. 
 
2. 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time 
 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In the case of any conflict between the 
 
terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
D.  
Environmental and Social Provisions 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General Conditions 
and of Sections I.B. and I.C of this Schedule, the Borrower shall: 
1. 
carry out the Project, and cause each and every Selected Irrigation Subproject to 
 
be carried out, in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the EA 
 
and to carry out the environmental assessment according to the provisions of the 
 
EMP (including provisions regarding protection of natural habitats, forests and 
 
pest management); and 
2. 
carry out the Project, and cause each and every Selected Irrigation Subproject to 
 
be carried out, in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the 
 
IPPF. 
 
9
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
 
Conditions and on the basis of Performance Indicators set forth in the 
 
Operational Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five days after 
 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2.  
Each Project Report shall also include: (a) the financial reports referred to in 
 
Section II.B. 2 below; (b) a physical progress report; and (c) procurement reports, 
 
all in accordance with the formats agreed with the Bank. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, interim un-audited 
 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
4. 
In conjunction with the financial audit referred to in Section B.3 above, the 
 
Borrower shall obtain annual procurement audits, each of which shall cover the 
 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. Not later than six months after the end 
 
of such period, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all information concerning 
 
the procurement audit as the Bank may reasonable request. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant services.  All goods, works and non-
 
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
10
 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
 
this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under 
 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
 
under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject 
to the additional provisions set forth in Part 
E of this Section III 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct contracting 
(d) Procedures set forth in Section 3.17 of 
the Procurement Guidelines for 
Community Participation 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
11
 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection (for audits only) 
(b) Consultant’s Qualifications  
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 
and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants  
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants  
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (i) each contract for 
goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 and $3,000,000 or more 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and all Direct Contracting; 
(ii) the first two contract each year under National Competitive Bidding and Shopping for 
Goods and Works; (iii) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and contracts under Single-source 
Selection; and (iv) each contract for individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of 50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
E. 
Special Provisions  
 
1. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
 
in this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
 
govern the procurement of goods, works and non-consultants’ services with 
 
National Competitive Bidding procedures under this Section. 
 
(a) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial 
standards of capability and whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the 
specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria, stipulated in the 
bidding documents. Evaluation criteria other than price shall be 
expressed in monetary terms. For purposes of bid evaluation and 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall 
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, 
including correction of arithmetic errors. 
12
 
(b) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(c) 
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids submitted for a 
contract to be subsequently awarded. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
bidding documents or any documentation related to such bidding 
documents with Ecuadorian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents and standard 
evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
 
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
 
govern all employment of consultants: 
 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
 
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any 
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with 
Ecuadorian authorities as a condition of participation in said selection 
process. 
 
(c) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the proposal 
documents. 
 
(d) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to 
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local 
firm or person. 
 
(e) 
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to 
participate to provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a 
minimum capital different from that required for Ecuadorian firms. 
 
(f) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to 
pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are different 
from those required for Ecuadorian consultants.  
 
(g) 
The invitation to submit proposals should be sent to the consultant firms 
included in a short list only as approved by the Bank. The invitation to 
submit proposals should not be open to any other consulting firm.  
 
13
(h) 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, at the time 
he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, 
hold civil service office or any other position in any agency of the 
Borrower, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into any 
such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting 
services. 
 
(i) 
The Borrower shall use standard requests for proposals and standard 
evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(j) 
Consultants (firms and individuals) shall not be required to present Bid 
and Performance securities as a condition to present proposals and sign a 
contract. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
 
such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) Goods, consultant’s 
services, Training and 
works (for Selected 
Irrigation Subprojects) 
under Part 1.A of the 
Project 
 
9,300,000 
100% 
 
14
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(2)Goods, consultants’ 
services, and works under 
Part 1.B of the Project  
 
4,400,000 
100%  
(3)Goods, consultants’ 
services and Training under 
Part 2 of the Project  
 
1,600,000 
100%  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
15,300,000  
 
For purposes of this table, the term “Training” means the reasonable cost of:  (i) 
training materials and rental of training facilities and equipment; (ii) tuition fees, travel 
and per-diem of trainers and trainees; and (iii) any other non-consultant expenses related 
to training (including study tours and workshops) to be carried out under the Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000.00 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after July 1, 2007, and in no case more than twelve months before the 
date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures; or 
 
(c) 
for payments made for expenditures covered by Category (1) in respect 
of Selected Irrigation Subprojects, unless the respective Subproject 
Implementation Agreement with each WUA responsible for the Selected 
Irrigation Subproject, has been entered into by the parties thereto. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
 
15
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.  
By December 14, 2007, the Borrower has strengthened and updated the financial 
 
management system referred to in Section II B.1. of Schedule 2 to this 
 
Agreement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
B. 
Within two weeks after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the 
 
financial management specialist-accountant; (ii) the financial management 
 
assistant; and (iii) the treasury, as referred to in the Operation Manual, have been 
 
appointed. 
 
C. 
Within three months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall execute the 
 
contract, satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of the external financial audit 
 
referred to in Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
D. 
Within three months after Effective Date, the Borrower has strengthened the 
 
procurement management capabilities of the Borrower’s procurement unit (PU) 
 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including, in particular, by:  (i) appointing 
 
the senior staff of the PU; and (ii) submitting to the Bank revised bidding 
 
documents and standard formats for bid evaluation, acceptable to the Bank, for 
 
the procurement of goods, works and services financed with the proceeds of the 
 
Loan. 
 
16
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
Beginning June 15, 2010 
 
through June 15, 2026 
 
2.94% 
On December 15, 2026 
2.98% 
17
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Charicando-Turubamba Road” means the Borrower’s road, approximately 26 
km long, located in the Borrower’s canton of Alausi, which starts at the junction 
with the Panamerican highway in Charicando and ends in Turubamba sector, in 
La Dolorosa. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
4. 
“EA” means the Borrower’s Environmental Assessment dated June 6, 2007, 
detailing, inter alia, the environmental and social mitigation measures to be 
applied during Project implementation, as such may be amended from time to 
time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
5. 
“EPM” means the Borrower's Environmental Procedures Manual dated June 6, 
2007, detailing, inter alia, the procedures to carry out the environmental 
screening and assessment and the environmental management plan of the 
Irrigation Subprojects. The EMP has been incorporated to the Operational 
Manual and may be amended or updated from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
6. 
“Executive Decree No. 611” means the Guarantor’s Decreto Ejecutivo No. 611 
that regulates the LOREYTF, published in the Guarantor’s Official Register No. 
131 on October 24, 2005, as it may have been amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“IPPF” means the Borrower’s indigenous peoples’ process framework for the 
Project, dated July 15, 2007, as such may be amended from time to time with the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
9. 
“Irrigation Subprojects” means a set of proposed activities and investments of 
rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation systems, including both 
improvement and rehabilitation works and the provision of training for the 
operation, management and maintenance of the irrigation systems. 
18
10. 
“LOREYTF” means Ley Organica de Responsabilidad, Estabilización y 
Transparencia Fiscal, the Guarantor’s Law of Responsibility, Stabilization and 
Financial Transparency, Law No. 72, published in the Guarantor’s Official 
Register No. 334 on August 15, 2006 as it may have been amended to the date of 
this Agreement. 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project dated 
October 13, 2007, referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“MEMRs” means the Routine Road Maintenance Micro-Enterprises, micro 
enterprises formed by local community members residing in the Borrower’s 
territory, which have as their main objective, the routine maintenance of the local 
roads.   
13. 
“PAC” means “Project Advisory Committee”, the committee referred to in 
Section I.B.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for Project monitoring and 
evaluation. 
 
15. 
“POT” means the “Project Operational Team”, the team referred to in Section 
I.B.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated October 1, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“Provincial Regimen Law” means Ley Organica de Régimen Provincial, the 
Provincial Law of Ecuador which establishes and regulates the organization and 
functions of the Borrower, published in the Guarantor’s Official Register No. 288 
on March 20, 2002, as it may have been amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Riomba-Cebadas Road” means the Borrower’s road, approximately 35 km long, 
which starts outside of the city of Riobamba and travels within the parishes of 
Licto, San Luís, Punín and Flores, terminating in the town of Cebadas.   
 
20. 
“Selected Irrigation Subprojects” means the Irrigation Subprojects which are 
eligible for financing under Part 1.A (c) of the Project, in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.  
 
19
21. 
“Subproject Implementation Agreement” means an agreement referred to in 
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“TAPs” means technical assistance service providers (including non 
governmental organizations (NGOs) of different natures, universities, consulting 
firms and second-tier organizations) which will be contracted to assist the 
Borrower and the WUAs in the carrying out of Part 1.A of the Project, and to 
assist the Borrower in procurement procedures and screening of Irrigation 
Subprojects.  
 
23. 
“WUAs” means the associations, with legal personality, formed by irrigation 
water users, which associations operate at the provincial level and have as their 
main function, irrigation system administration, operation and management, 
water distribution and the collection of fees.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Section  2.07 (b) shall read as follows: 
 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date and pay 
to itself the amount of the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to Section 3.01.” 
2. 
Section  3.01 shall read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end 
fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”).” 
3. 
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.02, at the end thereof, which shall read 
as follows: 
 
“Section 3.02. Interest 
(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the Default 
Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan 
Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a 
result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default 
Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be 
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.” 
20
4.  
APPENDIX – Definitions: 
4.01. 
Definition (19) “Commitment Charge” is deleted. 
4. 02. Definition (40) “Fixed Spread” shall read as follows: 
“ “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan Currency in 
effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in 
the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided further that 
notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate 
applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a 
Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the 
Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
4. 03. Definition (43) “Front-end Fee” shall read as follows: 
“ “Front-end Fee” means the fee specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose 
of Section 3.01.” 
4. 04. Definition (56) “LIBOR Reset Date” shall read as follows: 
““LIBOR Reset Date” means:  
(a)  
for any Loan Currency other than Euro, the day two London Banking 
Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the 
case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding 
the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the 
date of the Loan Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth day of the 
month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date 
shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of 
such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed 
Spread Loan, the day two London Banking Days prior to the first or 
fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, 
whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; 
provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or 
fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) 
if the Conversion Date of a Currency Conversion of an amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency other than Euro 
falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days 
21
prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion 
Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion Date; 
provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of 
such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date);  
(b)  
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first day of the 
relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period for 
a Variable Spread Loan, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the 
fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in which the Loan 
Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan 
Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of such month; (ii) in the case 
of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan 
Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR 
Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the date 
of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to Euro falls 
on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date for the 
Approved Currency shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to 
the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion Date falls, 
whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided that 
if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, 
the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two 
Target Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); and  
(c)  
notwithstanding sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, for a 
Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the Bank determines 
that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR Reset Date is on 
a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset 
Date shall be such other date, as further specified in the Conversion 
Guidelines.” 
4.05. 
Definition (63) “Loan Payment” shall read as follows: 
“ “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank 
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited 
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at 
the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a 
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
22
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
4.06. 
Definition (68) “Payment Date” shall read as follows: 
“ “Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement occurring on 
or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.” 
4.07. 
The following definitions are added to the Appendix at the end thereof: 
“ “Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount remains unpaid; 
provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall commence on the 31st 
day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, and the final such 
Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is fully paid.” 
““Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%).” 
““Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
““Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable 
Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred 
to 
in 
paragraph 
(d) 
of 
Section 
3.02 
first 
becomes 
overdue.”
 
