CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7428-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 17, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7428-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 17, 2008, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF 
BRAZIL (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“the Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread. Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid 
when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in 
Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 -
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MPS with the assistance of 
the Participating States in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 3 -
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that this 
Agreement has been duly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
 
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on August 13, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE V—REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8 andar 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 3412-1740 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5 andar 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 3225-4022 
 
Ministério da Previdência Social 
Secretaria de Políticas de Previdência Social 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “F” - 7 andar 
70059-900 Brasília, D.F. 
- 4 -
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 3433-5195 
 
5.02 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 5 -
AGREED at Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By/s/ Carlos Antonio Correa de Viana Bandeira 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/John Briscoe 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to enhance fiscal stability and sustainable 
economic growth in the Participating States through improved pension management. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Cadastre and Information Technology Upgrading
(a) 
Upgrading of Participating States’ executive branch pension registers 
including verification of individuals’ registers and inputting into the 
respective states' unified pension system. 
 
(b) 
Upgrading of registers and systems of the legislative and judicial 
branches and other autonomous agencies of the Participating States so 
that, to the extent possible, they can be integrated with pension cadastres, 
thereby creating unified cadastres and systems. 
 
(c) 
Upgrading of Participating States' systems so that their respective state 
government branches' pension data bases are integrated in a unified 
system.  
 
2. 
MPS Data Base Implementation and Upgrading
(a) 
Implementation of the MPS Data Base and its modules in Participating 
States and development of a new payroll module for such Participating 
States that is compatible with the MPS Data Base.  
 
(b) 
Implementation of the necessary systems refinements so that 
Participating States' pension data bases can be integrated and cross 
referenced with extant national data bases that capture obituaries, 
benefits, contributions, and work experience to upgrade individual 
registers and identify fraudulent or incorrect payments. 
 
(c) 
Development of software to make the MPS Data Base a more user 
friendly pension management tool. 
 
3. 
Unified Administrator Model
(a) 
Development of a unified pension administrator model for Participating 
States, and carrying out of dissemination and consultation events as may 
be required therefor. 
- 7 -
(b) 
Provision of information technology equipment to Participating States. 
 
4. 
Strengthening the Participating States’ Pension Management
(a) 
Training of Participating States’ staff in subjects related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of workshops to disseminate in the Participating States the 
legislative requirements of the federal pension system, the results of 
cadastre work undertaken under the Project, and institutional 
strengthening support implemented under the Project. 
 
(c) 
Training of relevant staff of the legislative and judicial branches of 
Participating States and other autonomous agencies of the Participating 
States on the unified pension system. 
 
(d) 
Training of auditors that would in turn train officials of the Participating 
States in the unified pension system. 
 
5. 
Strengthening the MPS
(a) 
Carrying out of: (i) a study to assess the needs of Participating States, 
and recommended reforms, regarding the management of disability 
insurance; and (ii) dissemination and consultation events connected 
thereto. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening and operation of the Borrower’s Council of State Pension 
Officials (CONAPREV) comprised by, inter alia, pension officials from 
the Borrower and its states (including the Participating States). 
 
(c) 
Carrying out of actuarial analysis of the pension systems of the 
Participating States. 
 
(d) 
Diagnosis and development of health and security legislation for the 
Borrower’s states, including dissemination and consultation activities 
connected thereto. 
 
(e) 
Provision of consultants services for the SPS’s PEU including printing 
and dissemination of newsletters and publications on pensions. 
 
- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Subsidiary Agreements, Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall, before submitting 
withdrawal applications for expenditures of a particular Participating State, enter into a 
subsidiary agreement (Termo de Adesão) between the Borrower and such Participating 
State, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
that such Participating State will declare its commitment to the objective of the Project 
and will undertake: 
 
(a) 
to carry out such activities and to collaborate with the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Project, all as set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement (including the Operational Manual); 
 
(b) 
to establish and maintain, during the execution of the Project, a unit (the 
State UT) responsible for implementation, coordination and evaluation of 
the Project activities to be carried out by such Participating State, such 
State UT to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Bank, and to have qualified staff as required to carry out its 
responsibilities; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
to assign trained staff to the unit of such Participating State 
responsible for pension management; and 
 
(ii) 
to provide thereto any equipment of such Participating State that 
has been acquired under Part 3 of the Project; 
 
(d) 
to relate the results of cadastre upgrades to the MPS and follow-up on 
irregularities identified, and to share pension data bases with the 
Borrower, all in terms acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; and 
 
(e) 
to refund to the Borrower the costs incurred for pension programs 
initiated under the Project if thereafter interrupted by the Participating 
State. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
- 9 -
3. 
The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project: 
 
(a) 
maintain the PCU with a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and with qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities; 
and 
 
(b) 
establish not later than two months after the date of this Agreement, and 
thereafter maintain, a unit in SPS (the PEU) responsible for assisting the PCU and the 
Participating States in all technical aspects related to the carrying out of the Project, for 
monitoring and evaluating the Participating States’ pension systems, and for providing 
technical assistance on pension matters to such Participating States, such unit to have a 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to have qualified staff in adequate 
numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities. 
 
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  The Borrower may 
amend the Operational Manual solely with the approval of the Bank. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five days 
after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
- 10 - 
 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Non-consultants’ Services.   All goods and non-consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultants Services
1. 
Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods and non-consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consultant services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances (including thresholds) under which 
such methods are authorized. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions 
set forth in the paragraph below. 
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods, pregão eletrônico set forth 
in the Borrower’s Law No. 10520 of July 17, 2002). 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement under National Competitive 
Bidding: 
 
- 11 - 
 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, 
whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those 
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that 
the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed 
in the invitation to bid; 
 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in 
Brazil or in the Borrower’s Official Gazzette; 
 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance 
by the Bank in each case; 
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more 
than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any change 
in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances (including thresholds) under which such methods are authorized. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Single-Source Selection. 
(b) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultants’ 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
(c) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
(d) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
- 12 - 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as 
revised from time to time by the World Bank  and as made applicable to this Agreement 
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Goods 
and 
non-
consultants’ services 
 
3,866,000 
100% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services 
 
1,097,000 
100% 
 
(3) Front-end fee 
 
12,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions  
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
24,500 
 
TOTAL  
 
5,000,000
- 13 - 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: (a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
for Eligible Expenditures made within twelve months before the date of this Agreement; 
and (b) from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end Fee. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
- 14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
beginning February 15, 2012 
 
through February 15, 2023 
4.17% 
On August 15, 2023 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
- 15 - 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 16 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“MPS” means Ministério da Previdência Social, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Social Security. 
 
5. 
“MPS Data Base” means the software developed by MPS which provides a 
comprehensive format for an electronic data base adequate for pension related 
reporting, and actuarial and diagnostic purposes. 
 
6. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, dated June 12, 2006, which contains, 
inter alia, the operational procedures for the carrying out of the Project, the 
requirements for a state to become a Participating State, and the model form for 
Subsidiary Agreements. 
 
7. 
“Participating State” means any state or the Federal District of the Borrower 
which meets the requirements set forth in the Operational Manual to benefit from 
the Project. 
 
8. 
“PCU” means the unit within the Executive Secretariat of MPS, established 
pursuant to MPS’s Portaria No. 27 of January 14, 2003, which has been assigned 
responsibility for managing and coordinating the carrying out of Project 
activities, 
including 
Project 
financial 
management, 
procurement 
and 
disbursement activities. 
 
9. 
“PEU” means the unit referred to in Section I. A.3 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 11, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
- 17 - 
 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“SPS” means Secretaria de Políticas de Previdência Social, the Borrower’s 
Social Security Secretariat. 
 
13. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I. A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Section 2.07 (b) shall read as follows: 
 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date and pay 
to itself the amount of the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to Section 3.01.” 
2. 
Section  3.01 shall read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end 
fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”).” 
3. 
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.02, at the end thereof, which shall read 
as follows: 
 
“Section 3.02. Interest 
(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and 
such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
Borrower shall pay the Default Interest Rate on such overdue amount in 
lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan Agreement (or such other 
interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a result of a 
Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the 
Default Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default 
Interest Period and shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each 
Payment Date.” 
4.  
APPENDIX – Definitions: 
4.01. 
Definition (19) “Commitment Charge” is deleted. 
- 18 - 
 
4. 02. Definition (40) “Fixed Spread” shall read as follows: 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan Currency in 
effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in 
the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided further that 
notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate 
applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a 
Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the 
Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
4. 03. Definition (43) “Front-end Fee” shall read as follows: 
“Front-end Fee” means the fee specified in the Loan Agreement for the purpose 
of Section 3.01.” 
4. 04. Definition (56) “LIBOR Reset Date” shall read as follows: 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means:  
(a)  
for any Loan Currency other than Euro, the day two London Banking 
Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the 
case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding 
the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the 
date of the Loan Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth day of the 
month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date 
shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of 
such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed 
Spread Loan, the day two London Banking Days prior to the first or 
fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, 
whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; 
provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or 
fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) 
if the Conversion Date of a Currency Conversion of an amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency other than Euro 
falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion 
Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion Date; 
provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of 
- 19 - 
 
such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date);  
(b)  
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first day of the 
relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest Period for 
a Variable Spread Loan, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the 
fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in which the Loan 
Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement 
falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan 
Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of such month; (ii) in the case 
of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the day two Target 
Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which 
the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day immediately precedes the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan 
Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR 
Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the date 
of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion Date of a Currency 
Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to Euro falls 
on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date for the 
Approved Currency shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to 
the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion Date falls, 
whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion Date; provided that 
if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of such month, 
the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two 
Target Settlement Days prior to the Conversion Date); and  
(c)  
notwithstanding sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, for a 
Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the Bank determines 
that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR Reset Date is on 
a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the LIBOR Reset 
Date shall be such other date, as further specified in the Conversion 
Guidelines.” 
4.05. 
Definition (63) “Loan Payment” shall read as follows: 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank 
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not limited 
to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at 
the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a 
Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
4.06. 
Definition (68) “Payment Date” shall read as follows: 
- 20 - 
 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement occurring on 
or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.” 
4.07. 
The following definitions are added to the Appendix at the end thereof: 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the Withdrawn Loan 
Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount remains unpaid; 
provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall commence on the 31st 
day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, and the final such 
Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is fully paid.” 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%).” 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest Period; 
it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable Rate shall 
be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in 
paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
 
