CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7546-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 27, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7546-DO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 27, 2008, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars 
($80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by INDRHI (Part 1 of 
the Project) and CDEEE (Part 2 of the Project) in accordance with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that 
CDEEE or INDRHI shall have failed, in the opinion of the Bank, to perform any 
of their obligations under the CDEEE Subsidiary Agreement or the INDRHI 
Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The CDEEE Subsidiary Agreement and the INDRHI Subsidiary 
Agreement have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CDEEE 
and INDRHI, respectively. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Inter-Institutional Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
CDEEE and INDRHI. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the CDEEE 
Subsidiary Agreement and the INDRHI Subsidiary Agreement have been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CDEEE and INDRHI, respectively, 
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and CDEEE and INDRHI, in 
accordance with their terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on November 2, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretario de Estado de Hacienda.
4
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda  
 
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
 
Santo Domingo, República Dominicana 
 
Tel:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(809) 687-5131  
 
(809) 688-8838 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Vicente Bengoa  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) restore and strengthen the Borrower’s 
irrigation, electricity, water, and sanitation infrastructure damaged by the tropical storms 
Olga and Noel in October and December 2007 or at risk of damage from future storms; 
and (ii) strengthen INDRHI’s and CDEEE’s capacity for future risk management. 
The Project and consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Rehabilitation and Risk Management in Water Resources Sector
Rehabilitation of the Borrower’s principal water management systems damaged by 
tropical storms Noel and Olga and strengthening of the Borrower’s institutional capacity 
for risk management, through, inter alia: 
 
1.1. 
(a) 
the reconstruction and rehabilitation of: (i) damaged water control 
 
structures, including the rehabilitation of water diversion and conveyance 
 
structures; (ii) canal systems; and (iii) water distribution, control, and 
 
drainage structures;  
 
(b) 
the restoration of ancillary dam infrastructure, including access roads and 
 
monitoring equipment;  
 
(c) 
the carrying out of works to repair the dams of Maguaca, Villarpando, 
 
Dique de Barracote,  Tavera, Jiguey, Aguacate, Hatillo, Rincon, Sabana 
 
Yegua, Mijo, Sabaneta, Rio Blanco, Arroyon, and Tireito; 
(d) 
the removal of flood debris; and 
 
(e) 
the repair and replacement of damaged flood control structures. 
 
1.2. 
the provision of technical assistance, goods and services to INDRHI to: (a) 
improve its capacity to model watershed behavior and identify watershed 
attributes contributing to increased risks associated with the water sector; (b) 
support the Borrower’s maintenance, preparedness and emergency response 
capabilities, including the provision of technical assistance to develop the 
Borrower’s proposed water law bill; (c) repair damaged stations to monitor river 
flow data and weather observations and install new stations for watershed 
monitoring and early warning of potential disaster conditions; (d) review and 
update the operating procedures of dams; (e) carry out a technical audit of the 
works under Part 1 of the Project; and (f) carry out the financial audit for Part 1 
of the Project. 
 
6
Part 2: Rehabilitation and Risk Management in the Electricity Sector 
Restoration of priority electricity infrastructure in the Borrower’s territory affected by the 
tropical storms Noel and Olga and strengthening of the electricity sector’s capacity to 
respond to natural disasters, through, inter alia:
2.1. 
the rehabilitation of hydroelectric generation facilities operated by EGEHID, 
including: (a) the rehabilitation of the power generation plants of Aguacate, 
Nizao-Najayo and Aniana Vargas, Valdesia, Jiguey, Sabana Yegua, Rio Blanco, 
Los Anones y Las Barias; and (b) the restoration of ancillary dam works, 
including access roads; and (c) carrying out of works to repair the dams of Las 
Barias and Valdesia; 
2.2. 
the rehabilitation of at least 152 km of transmission lines operated by ETED, 
including in the following sectors: (a) Azua-Sabana Yegua; (b) Cruce Cabral-Las 
Damas; (c) Sabana Yegua-San Juan;(d) Cruce Cabral-Vicente Noble; and (e) 
Haina- Galeria Infiltracion CAASD Manoguayabo; 
2.3. 
the rehabilitation of electricity distribution facilities carried out by EDENORTE 
and EDESUR; and 
 
2.4. 
(a) the revision and updating of the technical specifications and quality control 
methods for the acquisition of materials and equipment for power transmission 
and distribution facilities; (b) the updating of the contingency plans in case of 
severe meteorological occurrences; (c) the strengthening of the CDEEE’s 
procurement capacity; (d) the carrying out of a technical audit of the works under 
Part 2 of the Project; and (e) the carrying out of the financial audit for Part 2 of 
the Project. 
 
Part 3:
Emergency Relief and Urgent Rehabilitation of Water and Sanitation 
Infrastructure in Santo Domingo and Santiago
3.1. 
Financing of water purification chemicals, including chlorine and aluminum 
sulfate, and gasoline, used for delivering potable water to the affected population 
in Santo Domingo in the wake of the tropical storms Noel and Olga. 
 
3.2. 
Carrying out of civil works and provision of goods and equipment to rehabilitate 
CORAASAN’s facilities damaged by the tropical storm Olga. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause CDEEE to maintain, until completion of the Project, a 
unit within its own structure (the UAFA), with staff (including a procurement 
specialist), structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, responsible for the 
management, coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Part 2 of 
the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause INDRHI to maintain, until completion of the Project, a 
unit within its own structure, with staff (including a procurement specialist), 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, responsible for the management, 
coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Part 1 of the Project. 
 
B. 
Subsidiary and Inter-Institutional Agreements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of their Parts of the Project, the Borrower shall 
make the proceeds of the Loan available to:  
 
(a) 
CDEEE under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the 
 
CDEEE, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank (“CDEEE 
 
Subsidiary Agreement”); and  
 
(b) 
INDRHI under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the 
 
INDRHI, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank (“INDRHI 
 
Subsidiary Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CDEEE Subsidiary Agreement 
and INDRHI Subsidiary Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the CDEEE Subsidiary Agreement or the INDRHI Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of their provisions. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause CDEEE and INDRHI to enter into an agreement (the 
Inter-Institutional Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the 
Bank, which shall include CDEEE’s and INDRHI’s obligations and 
responsibilities under the Project. 
8
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards and Operational Considerations 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of a 
manual (the “Operational Manual”), satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to 
include, inter alia: (a) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; (b) the organizational structure of the Project (including 
the roles and responsibilities of CDEEE and INDRHI); (c) the Project 
procurement and financial management requirements and procedures; (d) 
standard environmental provisions to be included in the bidding documents for 
investments to be carried out under the Project; (e) the Project’s chart of accounts 
and internal controls; (f) the format of: (i) the interim unaudited financial reports 
referred to in Section II. B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the 
Financial Statements; (g) the terms of reference for carrying out the Project 
audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (h) the 
indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation.  In case of any 
inconsistency between any provisions of the Operational Manual and this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments: 
 
(i) 
an evaluation of the safety of the dams to be repaired under the 
Project, including their reservoir banks, associated structures, 
earthworks, penstocks and other waterways, and their generating 
plant structures and equipment used for water supply provision; 
and 
 
(ii) 
an identification of the measures to be taken to address any 
deficiencies or potential deficiencies in their condition, or in the 
quality or adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of 
such facilities which may endanger the safety of any of such 
facilities or the staff maintaining or operating them; and 
 
(b) 
take all such necessary actions to implement identified measures under 
Part 2 (a) (ii) during Project implementation.  
 
3. 
If required by the Bank, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out an environmental 
assessment of Project works in accordance with the Bank’s policies; and (b) carry 
out preventive and/or remedial actions as recommended by such assessment, in a 
9
manner satisfactory to the Bank (including, at the request of the Bank, with 
respect to works retroactively financed pursuant to Section IV.B.1(a) of this 
Schedule). 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual 
and agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
for Part 3 of the Project, and shall cause INDRHI for Part 1 of the Project and 
CDEEE for Part 2 of the Project, to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the 
Project Report not later than forty five days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for each part of the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall for Part 3 of the Project, and shall cause INDRHI for Part 1 
of the Project and CDEEE for Part 2 of the Project, to have the Financial 
Statements for each part of the Project audited in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than four months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and non- 
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
10
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Limited International Bidding (for contracts of goods) 
(b) National Competitive Bidding with international advertisement for contracts 
above $3,000,000 Dollars 
(c) Shopping 
(d) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
11
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Quality Based Selection 
(c) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Individual Consultants 
(f) Fixed Budget Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A.  
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) (a) Works (except as provided in 
 
category 1 (b) below), goods 
 
(except as provided in category 1 
 
(b) below), consultants services, 
 
non-consultant services and 
 
Operating Costs under Part 1 of the 
 
Project 
 
(1)  (b) Works and goods under Part 
 
1.1 (c) of the Project 
 
29,350,000 
 
5,000,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
12
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(2)  (a) Works (except as provided 
 
in category 2 (b) below), 
 
consultant services, non-consultant 
 
services and Operating Costs under 
 
Part 2 of the Project 
 
(2) (b) Works and goods (except as 
 
provided in category  2 (c) below) 
 
under Part 2.1 (c) of the Project 
 
(2) (c) Goods under Part 2 of the 
 
Project 
 
14,674,000 
 
15,198,000 
 
4,078,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(3) (a) Works under Part 3 of the 
 
Project. 
 
(3) (b) Goods under Part 3 of the 
 
Project 
 
2,400,000 
 
1,100,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
200,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(5) Unallocated 
 
8,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
80,000,000
For the purposes of this Section, the term “Operating Costs” means the non-consultant 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with the daily operation of the 
UAFA and INDRHI for activities directly related to the Project, including, inter alia,
maintenance of equipment and vehicles, rental of office facilities, office utilities, supplies 
and materials, and domestic travel and per diem of UAFA and INDRHI staff, which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
13
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a)  
(i)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$24,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to 
this date but on or after October 29, 2007, for Categories 1 (a), 2 
(b), 1 (b), 2 (a) and 3 (a) of the table in paragraph A above; and   
 
(ii) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement,  except 
that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$8,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to 
this date but on or after June 30, 2007, for Categories 2 (c) and 3 
(b) of the table in paragraph A above; and 
 
(b) 
for payments under Categories 1 (b) and 2 (b) of the table in paragraph A 
above, unless the Bank has received a satisfactory evaluation report on 
the safety of dams, referred to in Section I.D.2(a)(i) of Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2013  
 
through November 15, 2037 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
15
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
16
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“CDEEE” means Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas, the 
Borrower’s conglomerate of electric companies, created pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 125-01, dated July 2001.  
 
4. 
“CDEEE Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
I.B.1(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall 
make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to CDEEE. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“CORAASAN” means Corporación de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Santiago,
created pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 582, dated April 4, 1977. 
 
7. 
“EDENORTE” means Empresa Generadora de Electricidad del Norte, S.A.,
serving the following areas of the Borrower’s territory: Santiago, La Vega, 
Puerto Plata y San Francisco. 
 
8. 
“EDESUR” means Empresa Generadora de Electricidad del Sur, S.A., serving 
the following areas of the Borrower’s territory: Distrito Nacional, San Cristóbal, 
Azua, Barahona y San Juan. 
 
9. 
“EGEHID” means Empresa de Generación Hidroeléctrica Dominicana, created 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 628, dated November 2, 2007. 
10. 
“ETED” means Empresa de Transmisión Eléctrica Dominicana, created pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 629, dated November 2, 2007. 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
17
12. 
“INDRHI” means Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidráulicos, the Borrower’s 
national water institute, created pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 6, dated 
September 1965. 
 
13. 
“INDRHI Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
I.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall 
make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to INDRHI. 
14. 
“Inter-Institutional Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.3 
of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
15. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D.1 of Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement. 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 28, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“UAFA” means the financial and administrative analysis unit within CDEEE. 
 
