CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7541-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Bengbu Integrated Environment Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 26, 2008  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 26, 2008, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
Appendix 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 -
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
- 3 -
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
party to the Subsidiary Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
- 4 -
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Yang Shaolin  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Anhui Province in improving the 
effectiveness and sustainability of selected urban environmental services delivered in 
Bengbu Municipality, including improving water supply, reducing incidents of land 
submergence from flooding and enhancing wastewater management. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1: Comprehensive Water Resource Management 
 
(a) 
Improve the management of Tianhe Lake as a drinking water resource, inter alia, 
by increasing water storage capacity of Tianhe Lake Reservoir and constructing 
flood discharge pump stations.  
 
(b) 
Improve the management of Longzi Lake to decrease floods in neighboring areas 
and to improve its ecology, inter alia, by constructing flood discharge pumping 
stations; upgrading lake embankments and removing silt from the lake.  
 
Part 2: Urban Environmental Infrastructure Improvement 
 
(a) 
Improve and expand the storm drainage and wastewater networks and access in 
selected areas of Bengbu City, inter alia, by: (i) constructing new and improving 
existing storm drainage networks and related storm drainage facilities to facilitate 
storm drainage; (ii)  de-silting and widening drainage ditches, strengthening 
embankments of rivers, and constructing pumping stations to facilitate flood 
management; (iii) constructing wastewater collection networks and related 
amenities to facilitate wastewater management; and (iv) constructing roads and 
bridges to facilitate access to selected areas.   
(b) 
Improve flood management, wastewater collection and access in selected areas in 
Huishang District, inter alia, by: (i) constructing and expanding flood discharge 
pumping stations and storm drainage pumping stations, and constructing and 
improving drainage ditches to facilitate flood management; (ii) constructing a 
pipeline to transfer wastewater from Gubei new district of Huaiyuan County for 
treatment in Huaishang District to facilitate wastewater management; and 
(iii) constructing roads, bridges sewers and telecommunication ducts to facilitate 
access to selected areas. 
 
- 6 -
Part 3: Sub-urban Environmental Infrastructure Improvement 
 
(a) 
Improve flood management, storm drainage, wastewater management and access 
in selected areas in Guzhen County, inter alia, by: (i) desilting flood canals and 
constructing drainage ditches, storm drainage pumping stations and related 
amenities to facilitate storm drainage and flood management; (ii)  constructing 
interceptors, wastewater collection networks and related amenities to facilitate 
wastewater management; and (iii) constructing roads and bridges to facilitate 
access to selected areas.   
(b) 
Improve flood management, storm drainage and access in selected areas in 
Huaiyuan County, inter alia, by: (i) rehabilitating flood retention basins and 
related amenities to facilitate flood management; (ii) constructing storm drainage 
networks and storm drainage pumping  stations and rehabilitating pumping 
stations to facilitate storm drainage; and (iii) constructing roads to facilitate 
access to selected areas. 
 
(c) 
Improve flood management and urban infrastructure in selected areas in the 
Mohekou Industrial Zone and Mohekou Township in Wuhe County, inter alia, 
by: (i) constructing intakes, treatment plants, booster pump stations, distribution 
mains and related amenities to facilitate water supply; (ii) constructing sewers 
and wastewater treatment plants to facilitate wastewater management; 
(iii) constructing storm drainage networks and related amenities to facilitate 
storm drainage; (iv) de-silting canals, raising embankments and constructing 
flood discharge pumping stations and related amenities to facilitate flood 
management; and (v) constructing roads to facilitate access to selected areas. 
 
Part 4: Institutional Development and Capacity Building 
 
(a) 
Develop and implement a plan to improve monitoring of water quality in Bengbu 
Municipality and the Counties of Guzhen, Huaiyuan and Wuhe, including 
establishment and equipping of data monitoring and processing stations and 
systems.  
 
(b) 
Provide support for implementation of the Project through the following: 
 
(i) 
With respect to Mohekou Industrial Zone (“MIZ”) in Wuhe County, 
provision of technical assistance for: (A) preparation of detailed designs 
of infrastructure investments; (B) development of rules and operations 
procedures for management of said zone; and (C) preparation of request 
for proposals for selection of a professional manager.  
 
(ii)  
Provision of technical assistance to aid implementing agencies and 
entities in their review of designs of infrastructure facilities, in Project 
- 7 -
management and in monitoring Project implementation (including 
implementation of EMPs and RAPs).  
 
(c) 
Enhance various aspects of the institutional capacity of implementing agencies 
and entities through the following:  
 
(i) 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, vehicles and other goods to 
strengthen the management and financial capacity of the Project 
Companies and the implementing agencies within Bengbu Municipality. 
 
(ii) 
Development of a water sector management strategy for Bengbu 
Municipality. 
 
Part 5: Resettlement 
 
Carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection 
with the implementation of Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project. 
- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be 
recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of eight (8) years.   
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than February 15 
and August 15 in each year, starting on February 15, 2009.  
 
- 9 -
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report by not later than 
March 15 and September 15 in each year after the end of each calendar semester, 
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
- 10 -
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the 
People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which 
may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum 
of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall 
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
- 11 -
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to 
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
- 12 -
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
(b)  
Shopping  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection  
 
(b)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(d)  
Single-source Selection 
 
(e)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(f)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by  
the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
- 13 -
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category (inclusive of taxes subject to 
the provisions of Section 2.06 of the General Conditions). 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Civil  works to be carried out by: 
 
(a)  BHNTIGC for construction of 
the initial portion of the sewer 
network in the High 
Technology Development 
Zone in Bengbu City  
2,570,000 
(b)  BHNTIGC for construction of 
the subsequent portion of said 
sewer network  
1,000,000 
(c)  BHNTIGC for other 
construction 
4,190,000 
(d)  WCIC  
15,820,000 
(e)  BEDZIC  
20,570,000 
(f)  BHNDDC 
10,419,000 
(g)  GUIDC 
5,710,000 
(h)  HZUIC 
3,160,000 
(i)  HWDIC  
3,540,000 
(j)  BDC 
6,480,000 
(k) B3WTC 
1,491,000 
(l)  Others 
18,820,000 
 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
71%
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
(2) Goods 
 
2,250,000 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services, training and 
study tours 
3,730,000 
100% 
- 14 -
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(4) Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of 
the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
100,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after January 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
(b) 
(i) 
under each of Categories (1)(a) through (1)(k) until the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Project Implementing 
Entity of its receipt of a copy of the Subsidiary Agreement 
entered into between the Project Participant concerned and its 
Respective Project Company, satisfactory to the Bank and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I, paragraph E.1 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement;  
 
(ii) 
in addition, with respect to Category (1)(b), until a contract, 
acceptable to the Bank, has been signed between BHNTIGC and 
a contractor for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant 
in southern Bengbu City to treat wastewater that will be 
conveyed through the sewer network to be constructed under 
Part 2(a) of the Project in the High Technology Development 
Zone in Bengbu City; and 
 
- 15 -
(iii) 
in addition, with respect to Category (1)(d), until detailed 
designs, prepared according to terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank, have been completed for infrastructure construction 
under Part 3(c) of the Project in Mohekou Industrial Zone and 
Mohekou Township in Wuhe County. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
 
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
May 15, 2016 
1.90% 
November 15, 2016 
1.95% 
May 15, 2017 
2.00% 
November 15, 2017 
2.05% 
May 15, 2018 
2.10% 
November 15, 2018 
2.15% 
May 15, 2019 
2.20% 
November 15, 2019 
2.26% 
May 15, 2020 
2.32% 
November 15, 2020 
2.37% 
May 15, 2021 
2.43% 
November 15, 2021 
2.49% 
May 15, 2022 
2.56% 
November 15, 2022 
2.62% 
May 15, 2023 
2.69% 
November 15, 2023 
2.75% 
May 15, 2024 
2.82% 
November 15, 2024 
2.89% 
May 15, 2025 
2.96% 
November 15, 2025 
3.04% 
May 15, 2026 
3.11% 
November 15, 2026 
3.19% 
May 15, 2027 
3.27% 
November 15, 2027 
3.35% 
May 15, 2028 
3.44% 
November 15, 2028 
3.52% 
May 15, 2029 
3.61% 
- 17 -
November 15, 2029 
3.70% 
May 15, 2030 
3.79% 
November 15, 2030 
3.89% 
May 15, 2031 
3.99% 
November 15, 2031 
4.09% 
May 15, 2032 
4.19% 
November 15, 2032 
4.31% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
- 18 -
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
- 19 -
APPENDIX 1 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
The acronym “EMPs” means, collectively, the following plans all dated  
August 8, 2007, which set out the environmental protection measures in respect 
of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank: 
 
(a) 
the environmental management plan contained in the Environmental 
Impact Assessment and Environmental Management Plan Report for: 
 
(i) 
Tianhe Flood Control Project; 
 
(ii) 
Longzi Lake Flood Control and Environment Improvement 
Project; 
 
(iii)  
Urban (South of Huai River) Environmental Infrastructure 
Improvement Project; 
 
(iv)  
Xijiagou and Baligou Environment Improvement Project; 
 
(v)  
Huaishang District Flood Control and Urban Environmental 
Infrastructure Improvement Project; 
- 20 -
(vi)  
Guzhen County Integrated Environment Improvement Project; 
 
(vii) 
Huaiyuan County Integrated Environment Improvement Project; 
and 
 
(viii) 
Wuhe County Mohekou Integrated Environment Improvement 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
the environmental management plans to be prepared by the Project 
Participants with respect to the Related Activities and agreed by the 
Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section I, paragraph C.2(b) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
The acronym “EMP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Project Companies, covering the 
period January 1 through December 31.  
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008).  
 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Project Company” means, individually, each of the Project companies set forth 
in the second column of the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, which 
company is established and operating pursuant to its:  
 
(a) 
Charter issued on the date specified in the said table; specifically, in the 
fourth column of the same row as the Project Company concerned; and  
 
(b) 
Business license issued by the relevant Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau on the date and with the license 
number specified in the said table; specifically, in the sixth and fifth 
columns of the same row as the Project Company concerned,  
 
and any successor thereto; and “Project Companies” means, collectively, all such 
companies.  
 
10. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Borrower’s Province of Anhui, and any 
successor thereto.  
 
- 21 -
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Project Participant” means, individually, each of the city, counties or district set 
forth in the first column of the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, and any 
successor thereto; and “Project Participants” means, collectively, all such city, 
counties and district. 
 
13. 
The acronym “RAPs” means, collectively, the following plans, all dated October 
2007, which set out the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of 
land and other assets, and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of 
Displaced Persons on account of the execution of Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, as 
well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of 
the Bank: 
 
(a) 
Resettlement Action Plan of Xijiagou and Baligou Integrated 
Environment Improvement Project; 
 
(b) 
Resettlement Action Plan of City Area (South of Huai River)  
Environmental Infrastructure Improvement Project and Longzihu Flood 
Control and Environment Improvement Project;  
 
(c) 
Resettlement Action Plan of Huaishang District Flood Control and 
Infrastructure Improvement Project; 
 
(d) 
Resettlement Action Plan of Guzhen County Integrated Environment 
Improvement Project; 
 
(e) 
Resettlement Action Plan of Mohekou Integrated Environment 
Improvement Project in Wuhe County;  
 
(f) 
Resettlement Action Plan for Huaiyuan County Integrated Environment 
Improvement Project; and  
 
(g) 
the resettlement action plans to be prepared by the Project Participants 
with respect to Related Activities and agreed by the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of Section I, paragraph C.1(b)(ii) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
The acronym “RAP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
14. 
“Related Activities” means, collectively:  
- 22 -
(a) 
The construction of a wastewater treatment plant in southern Bengbu 
City to treat wastewater that will be conveyed through the sewer network 
to be constructed under Part 2(a) of the Project in the High Technology 
Development Zone in Bengbu City.  
 
(b) 
The acquisition of remaining land required for the establishment of 
Mohekou Industrial Park located in Mohekou town of Wuhe County 
which park will be served by flood management and urban infrastructure 
to be constructed under Part 3(c) of the Project. 
 
(c) 
The relocation of polluting chemical industries, presently situated in 
Bengbu City, to the Mohekou Industrial Zone or other dedicated 
industrial park.    
 
“Related Activity” means, individually, any such activity. 
 
15. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy Framework for 
China Bengbu Integrated Environment Project, dated December 7, 2007, which 
framework sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of 
resettlement action plans whenever required during implementation of the 
Related Activities or of the Project. 
 
16. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of: (a) each Project 
Participant, activities under the Project to be carried out within its jurisdiction; 
and (b) each Project Company, activities under the Project to be carried by said 
Project Company within the jurisdiction of the Project Participant concerned. 
 
17. 
“Respective Project Company” means in respect of each Project Participant, the 
Project Company or Project Companies set forth in the same row as the Project 
Participant in the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, and any successor 
thereto; and “Respective Project Companies” means, collectively, all such 
companies. 
 
18. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be entered into 
between each Project Participant and its Respective Project Company pursuant to 
Section I, paragraph E.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
supplements to said agreements; and a “Subsidiary Agreement” means, 
individually, any of said Subsidiary Agreements. 
 
19. 
The following acronyms refer to the following Project Companies: 
 
(a) 
“BDC” means Bengbu Municipal Drainage Company; 
 
- 23 -
(b) 
“B3WTC” means Bengbu No.3 Wastewater Treatment Company; 
 
(c) 
“BEDZIC” means Bengbu Economic Development Zone Investment 
Company Limited; 
 
(d) 
“BHNDDC” means Hebei New District Investment and Development 
Company Limited; 
 
(e) 
“BHNTIGC” means Bengbu High Tech Zone Investment Group 
Company Limited;  
 
(f) 
“GUIDC” means Guzhen Urban Investment & Development Company 
Limited; 
 
(g) 
“HWDIC” means Huaiyuan Western Development Investment Company 
Limited;  
 
(h) 
“HZUIC” means Huaiyuan Zhengda Urban Investment Company 
Limited; and 
 
(i) 
“WCIC” means Wuhe Construction Investment Company Limited. 
 
Each of the above listed Project Company is established and operating pursuant 
to its Charter issued on the date specified in the table in Appendix 2 to this 
Agreement and Business license issued by the relevant Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau on the date and with the license number 
specified in the said table, and any successor thereto. 
 
- 24 -
APPENDIX 2
Project Company is established and operating pursuant
to its Charter and Business License as follows:
Name of
Project
Participant
Name of
Project
Company
Acronym
Date
Of
Charter
Business
License Number
Date of
Business
License
Bengbu Municipal Drainage Company
BDC
September 1, 2004
3403001001256
September 1,
2004
Bengbu Economic Development Zone Investment
Company Limited
BEDZIC
April, 2006
340300000000051
June 28, 2007
1. Bengbu
Municipality
Bengbu High Tech Zone Investment Group Company
Limited
BHNTIGC
June 30, 2006
3403001002534
January 24,
2006
Bengbu No.3 Wastewater Treatment Company
B3WTC
April 27, 2004, as
amended
340300000001819
Oct. 26, 2006
2. Huaishang
District
Hebei New District Investment and Development
Company Limited
BHNDDC
March 2003, as
amended
3403001002760
April 29, 2006
3. Wuhe
County
Wuhe Construction Investment Company Limited
WCIC
August 10, 2004
340322000000236
July 17, 2007
4. Guzhen
County
Guzhen Urban Investment & Development Company
Limited
GUIDC
January 20, 2007
3403231000372
May 25, 2006
Huaiyuan Zhengda Urban Investment Company
Limited
HZUIC
November 30, 2005
34032110000674
December 1,
2005
5. Huaiyuan
County
Huaiyuan Western Development Investment
Company Limited
HWDIC
April 28, 2007
3403211000094
July 3, 2007
- 25 -
