CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4869-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 26, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN NUMBER 4869-UA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 2008, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of Parts A to D of the Project;  
 
(B)  
Parts A.1, A.3, B, C and D.2 of the Project will be carried out by the 
Utilities (as defined hereinafter) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article 
II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to the Utilities, as set forth in this Agreement; 
and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreements to be entered between the Bank and the Utility and the 
Municipality (the Project Agreements); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
- 2 -
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1.01.(a) of this Agreement, 
Articles III and IV of the “General Conditions for Loans” of the Bank dated July 1, 2005 
(as amended through October 17, 2007) (the 2007 General Conditions), as well as the 
definitions set forth in the Appendix of the 2007 General Conditions of the terms used in 
said Articles III and IV, constitute an integral part of this Agreement with respect to 
Article II and Schedule III of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(d) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
- 3 -
(a) 
“Agency for Development Programs of Odessa” means the municipal 
enterprise Agency for Development Programs of Odessa, operating under the Charter 
approved by the Odessa City Council Decision No. 5321-IV of March 6, 2006, 
Identification No. 34381156, or its successor thereof; 
 
(b) 
 “Chernihivvodokanal 
Utility” 
means 
the 
municipal 
enterprise 
Chernihivvodokanal, operating under the Charter approved by Chernihiv Mayor Decision 
No. 130-r of April 26, 2001, Identification No. 03358222, or its successor thereof; 
 
(c) 
 “Eligible Categories” means: (i) in respect of Parts A.1, A.3, B, C and 
D.2 of the Project, Category (1) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; (ii) in respect of Part C of the Project, Category (2), set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (iii) in respect of Part A.2 and D.1 of the 
Project, Category (3) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
 “Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works,  
consultants’ services and incremental operating costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” and “EMP” means the Borrower’s 
environmental management plan dated November 2005, describing the environmental, 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken under Parts B and C 
of the Project to ensure that all environmental concerns are adequately taken into account 
in the carrying out of the rehabilitation works and investments thereunder; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(h) 
“Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom 
Utility” 
means 
the 
municipal 
enterprise Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom, operating under the Charter approved by 
Decision of Ivano-Frankivsk City Council No. 165 of April 15, 2003, Identification No. 
32360815, or its successor thereof; 
 
(i) 
“MHCS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing and Communal 
Services, acting in accordance with the Regulation adopted by the Resolution of the 
Cabinet Ministers No. 717 of May 12, 2007, or its successor thereof; 
 
(j) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, acting in accordance 
with the Regulation adopted by the Resolution of the Cabinet Ministers No. 1837 of 
December 27, 2006, or its successor thereof; 
 
- 4 -
(k) 
 “Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower to 
measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to which the 
objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
(l) 
“Municipality” or “Municipalities” means: (i) the Municipalities that 
exercise their authority in accordance with the Borrower’s Law on Local Self-Governing 
No.280/97 dated May 21, 1997, and the Borrower’s Law on Local State Administration 
No. 586-14 dated April 9, 1999; or (ii) the Borrower’s local governments which provide 
the guarantee of local budget to the municipal enterprises participating in the project, or 
oblast state administrations, depending on their jurisdiction; 
 
(m) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the MHCS and 
setting forth the detailed Project objectives and description and the institutional, 
implementation, procurement, administrative and monitoring arrangements, as the same 
may be updated and amended from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Section  B.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“CPMU” means the Central Project Management Unit referred to in Part 
A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, with responsibilities at the central level to carry out 
daily management and implementation activities of the Project; 
 
(o) 
 “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
July 5, 2007 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (b) to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) 
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(p) 
 “Project Agreements” means the agreements between the Bank and the 
Selected Utilities respectively, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreements; 
 
(q) 
“Regional PMUs” means the Project Management Units to be 
established under the Utilities’ Decrees to carry out at the regional level the daily 
management and implementation activities of the Project in coordination with the 
Utilities (as defined hereinafter) and the CPMU; 
 
(r) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(s)  
“Selected Utilities” means the Agency for Development Programs of 
Odessa, Chernihivvodokanal Utility and Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom Utility; 
- 5 -
selected for the purposes of carrying out Parts A.1, A.3, B, C and D.2 of the Project and 
having entered into related Project Agreements and Subsidiary Loan Agreements; 
 
(t) 
 “Special Accounts” means the Special Deposit Accounts A, B, C , and D 
referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(u)  
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into 
between MOF, MHCS, and the Utilities pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time;  
 
(v) 
“Utilities” means the selected utilities or the utilities to be selected under 
paragraph 3 of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the Operations Manual; and 
 
(w)  
“Utilities to be Selected” means the Utilities to be chosen in accordance 
with the Operations Manual, other than Agency for Development Programs of Odessa, 
Chernihivvodokanal Utility and Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom Utility, for the 
purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project under Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
- 6 -
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred and forty million Dollars ($140,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, 
goods, consultants services, and incremental operating costs required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2012 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one quarter of one percent ( 0.25%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each interest Period shall 
be at a rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 
3.02(d) of the 2007 General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
- 7 -
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall (i) carry out Parts A.2 and D.1 of the Project through the 
MHCS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial engineering, and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, shall cause the Utilities to perform the activities related to the 
carrying out of Parts A.1, A.3, B, C and D.2 of the Project, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreements and shall take or cause the Utilities to take all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Utilities to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
MHCS, shall carry out the Parts A.2 and D.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall relend the part of proceeds of the Loan to the 
Utilities under subsidiary loan agreements entered or to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, and the Utilities, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower, through the MOF and MHCS, shall exercise its rights 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan and furnish such update 
to the Bank not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through the MHCS: 
- 8 -
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B and C of the Project 
shall be carried out by the Utilities and Municipalities pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement(s). 
 
- 9 -
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the MHCS, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MHCS, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower, through the MHCS, shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
- 10 -
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 2 of Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through the MHCS, shall prepare, and cause the Utilities to prepare, and 
furnish to the Bank a consolidated financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter in which the first disbursement occur after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
- 11 -
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Utilities and Municipalities shall 
have jointly or individually failed to perform any of their obligations under the Project 
Agreements. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
- 12 -
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that at least two Project Agreements and respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been signed on behalf of the Borrower, through the 
MOF and MHCS, and two Selected Utilities and the Municipalities, as the case may be. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the two Project Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 above have 
been duly authorized by the Utilities, and are legally binding upon the Utilities in 
accordance with its terms; and  
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 above 
have been duly authorized by the Borrower and the Utilities and are legally binding upon 
the Borrower and the Utilities in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date of ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.04. Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement 
of the parties hereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending 
agreement. 
- 13 -
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 
Kyiv, 01008 
 
Ukraine 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
131450  
 
(380-44) 253 82 43 
 
(380-44) 207 05 08 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By /s/ Oleksiy Kucherenko 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Paul Bermingham 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. 
General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) For Parts A.1 A.3, B, C  
 
100% 
 
and D.2 of the Project 
 
 
 
(a)  Agency for Development 
 
Programs of Odessa 
 
Goods, Works, Consultant Services, 
35,530,000 
 
and incremental operating costs 
 
(b) Chernihivvodokanal Utility 
 
Goods, Works, Consultant Services, 
14,830,000 
 
and incremental operating costs 
 
(c) Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom 
 
Utility 
 
Goods, Works, Consultant Services, 
7,170,000 
 
and incremental operating costs 
 
(2) Part C of the Project  
 
100% 
 
Goods, Works, Consultant Services 
 
 
 
 
and incremental operating costs 
80,120,000 
 
- 16 -
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(3) Part A.2 and D.1 of  
2,000,000 
100% 
the Project 
 
Consultant Services and 
 
incremental operating costs for  
 
the MHCS 
 
(4) Front-end fee 
350,000 
Amount due  
 
under Section  
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
140,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “incremental operating costs” means 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower, through MHCS, to finance reasonable and 
necessary operating expenses of the CPMU and Regional PMUs in respect of their 
operations and administration of activities under the Project, and which are payable on 
account of cost of rent and utilities, office equipment and supplies, maintenance, 
communication, transportation, public consultations, training, travel and per diem, Project 
audit, and salaries, except salaries of civil servants, and all other expenses as may be 
agreed with the Bank. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a)  
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement prior 
to the date of this Agreement,; 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a) unless the 
Borrower has provided evidence that the Project Agreement with the Agency for 
Development Programs of Odessa and the respective Subsidiary Agreement have been 
executed under terms satisfactory to the Bank and a legal opinion, satisfactory to the 
Bank, has been issued stating that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Project 
Agreement have been concluded on behalf of the Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, 
and the Agency for Development Program of Odessa and that such Agreements have 
been duly authorized by the Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, and the Agency for 
- 17 -
Development Programs of Odessa and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Agency for Development Programs of Odessa;  
 
(c)  
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) unless the 
Borrower has provided evidence that the Project Agreement with the Chernihivvodokanal 
Utility and Municipality and the respective Subsidiary Agreement have been executed 
under terms satisfactory to the Bank and a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been issued stating that  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement have 
been concluded on behalf of the Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, and the 
Chernihivvodokanal Utility and Municipality and that such Agreements have been duly 
authorized by the Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, and the Chernihivvodokanal 
Utility and Municipality and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Chernihivvodokanal Utility and Municipality;  
 
(d) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (c) unless the 
Borrower has provided evidence that the Project Agreement with the Ivano-
Frankivskvodoecotechprom Utility and Municipality and the respective Subsidiary 
Agreement have been executed under terms satisfactory to the Bank and a legal opinion, 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been issued stating that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
the Project Agreement have been concluded on behalf of the Borrower, through MOF and 
MHCS, and the Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom Utility and Municipality and that such 
Agreements have been duly authorized by the Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, and 
the Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom Utility and Municipality and are legally binding 
upon the Borrower and the Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom Utility and Municipality;  
 
(e)  
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) unless the Borrower 
has provided evidence that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the Utilities to be 
Selected or Municipalities as the case may be – other than Agency for Development 
Programs of Odessa, Chernihivvodokanal Utility and Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom 
Utility - have been executed under terms satisfactory to the Bank and a legal opinion, 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been issued stating that  the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
have been concluded on behalf of the Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, and the 
Utilities to be Selected (or Municipalities as the case may be) and that such Agreements 
have been duly authorized by the Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, and the Utilities 
to be Selected or Municipalities as the case may be, and are legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Utilities to be Selected or Municipalities as the case may be. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) incremental operating costs all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
- 18 -
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
 
B. 
Special Accounts
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars: (a) Special Deposit Account A 
in respect of the Agency for Development Programs of Odessa; (b) Special Deposit 
Account B in respect of Chernihivvodokanal Utility; (c) Special Deposit Account C in 
respect of Ivano-Frankivskvodoecotechprom Utility; and (d) Special Deposit Account D 
under Part C of the Project, implemented by the MHCS in respect of the Utilities to be 
Selected, and Municipalities; all in commercial banks acceptable to the Bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts 
have been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into 
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
- 19 -
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made 
and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Accounts were made for expenditures which are not Eligible Expenditure, or were not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Accounts (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 20 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $3,500,000 in respect of Special Account A, the amount of $1,400,000 in 
respect of Special Account B, the amount of $1,000,000 in respect of Special Account C 
and the amount of $7,600,000 in respect of Special Account D, to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Accounts of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Accounts at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
- 21 -
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
- 22 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Accounts an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The Project objective is to assist utilities in moving towards higher quality and 
reliability of services and towards reducing the costs of service through a series of 
institutional improvements and rehabilitation of water supply, wastewater and solid waste 
systems. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Preparing and implementing annual business plans for water, wastewater and 
solid waste utilities, including performance targets and production of updated financial 
statements. 
 
2. 
Further strengthening the MHCS‘s capacity to monitor and ensure accountability, 
supervision capacity and improved efficiency of the water, wastewater and solid waste 
sector, through the carrying out of procurement and financial management training. 
 
3. 
Further strengthening the Utilities’ capacity to monitor and ensure accountability, 
supervision capacity and improved efficiency of the water, wastewater and solid waste 
sector, through the carrying out of procurement and financial management training. 
 
Part B Rehabilitation Investments
Carrying out selected rehabilitation of infrastructure works and replacement and 
upgrading of equipment needed for selected water, wastewater and solid waste utilities to 
mitigate serious health and environmental risks, all in accordance with the Project’s 
Utilities Business Plan. 
 
Part C Energy Efficiency Investments
Replacing energy intensive equipment and related infrastructure with more 
energy efficient facilities of selected municipal utilities, rehabilitation of infrastructure 
works and upgrading of equipment of selected municipal entities. These eligible 
municipal utilities shall have: (a) completed their business plans under Part A.1 of the 
Project in a manner satisfactory to the MHCS and the Bank, (b) provided economic and 
technical analysis confirming sufficient potential energy savings, and (c) obtained prior 
no-objection of the Bank. 
 
- 24 -
Part D Project Management
1. 
Supporting MHCS’s overall implementation and coordination of the Project at 
the central level, including financial management, procurement, monitoring and 
evaluation, public information and training and related operating expenses. 
 
2. 
Supporting the Utilities implementation and coordination of the Project at the 
regional level, including financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, 
public information and training and related operating expenses. 
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2012. 
- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
April 15, 2013 
 
3,000,000
October 15, 2013 
 
3,085,000
April 15, 2014 
 
3,175,000
October 15, 2014 
 
3,265,000
April 15, 2015 
 
3,360,000
October 15, 2015 
 
3,460,000
April 15, 2016 
 
3,560,000
October 15, 2016 
 
3,660,000
April 15, 2017 
 
3,765,000
October 15, 2017 
 
3,875,000
April 15, 2018 
 
3,985,000
October 15, 2018 
 
4,100,000
April 15, 2019 
 
4,220,000
October 15, 2019 
 
4,340,000
April 15, 2020 
 
4,465,000
October 15, 2020 
 
4,595,000
April 15, 2021 
 
4,725,000
October 15, 2021 
 
4,860,000
April 15, 2022 
 
5,000,000
October 15, 2022 
 
5,145,000
April 15, 2023 
 
5,295,000
October 15, 2023 
 
5,445,000
April 15, 2024 
 
5,605,000
October 15, 2024 
 
5,765,000
April 15, 2025 
 
5,930,000
October 15, 2025 
 
6,100,000
April 15, 2026 
 
6,275,000
October 15, 2026 
 
6,460,000
April 15, 2027 
 
6,645,000
October 15, 2027 
 
6,840,000
TOTAL 
                                                              140,000,000
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004, (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004, (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
 
(a) 
Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic firms.  Foreign firms shall not 
be excluded from the national competitive bidding process irrespective 
of the contract value. 
- 27 -
(b) 
Procedures
(i) 
“Open tender procedures” shall be followed in all cases.  
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of 
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.  
 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost.  
 
(c) 
Pre-qualification
(i) 
Prequalification, where used, shall be based on a “pass/fail” 
system.  
 
(ii) 
Minimum experience, technical, and financial requirements shall 
be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.  
 
(d) 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
(i) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory shall 
be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish that 
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government.   
 
(ii) 
Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(e) 
Bidding Documents
(i) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample 
bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents, for 
the procurement of goods, works, or technical services (other 
than consultants' services), all acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(ii) 
Bidding documents shall be made available to all those 
companies that have paid the required fee. 
 
(f) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(i) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  
- 28 -
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
No domestic preference shall be allowed in evaluating bids. 
 
(iv) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no 
negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract award. 
 
(g) 
Rejection of Bids
(i) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is 
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. 
 
(ii) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(h) 
Securities
Bid security shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract. Performance security shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract price. 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment 
security. The format of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents 
and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Shopping. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. 
Direct Contracting.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
- 29 -
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract] may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Part A: Institutional Arrangements
1.  
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, with composition 
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, the MHCS which shall be 
responsible for the overall review and overseeing of the Project activities, advising on 
any major policy issues related to the implementation of the Project and ensuring 
coordination between governmental and local authorities and related agencies involved in 
the implementation of the Project. 
 
2.  
The Borrower, through MHCS, shall ensure that all necessary measures are taken 
to establish by, not later than June 30, 2008, and thereafter maintain the CPMU during 
the execution of the Project with such staff and resources as shall be required for the 
CPMU to perform its duties in respect of the day-to-day management and implementation 
of the Project at the central level and in coordination with the Regional PMUs, all in 
accordance with the Operations Manual. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MHCS, shall ensure that all necessary measures are taken 
to establish by not later than June 30, 2008 and thereafter maintain the Regional PMUs 
during the execution of the Project with such staff and resources as shall be required for 
the PMU to perform its duties in respect of the day-to-day management and 
implementation of the Project at the local level and in coordination with the PMU and the 
Utilities, all in accordance with the Operations Manual. 
 
Part B: Implementation Modalities
1. 
Operations Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through MOF and MHCS: shall (i) adopt the Operations 
Manual not later than 6 months after the date of this Agreement; and (ii) take all action 
required to ensure that the Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree or as the Bank may otherwise 
judge it necessary to update the Operations Manual to reflect and support a sustainable 
evolution of the Project, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive the Operations 
Manual or any provision thereof. 
 
2. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(a)  
The Borrower, through MOF and MHCS, shall enter into agreements 
with the Selected Utilities for the purpose of carrying out Parts A.1, A.3, B, C and D.2 of 
- 31 -
the Project, and with the Utilities to be Selected for the purposes of carrying out Part C of 
the Project, all under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed upon with the 
Bank (the Subsidiary Loan Agreements) and which shall include, inter alia: 
 
(i) 
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
provisions set forth or referred to in this provision shall apply for 
the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable to the 
Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall: (i) be 
denominated in Dollars; and (ii) be the equivalent in Dollars 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment of 
the principal amount of the Loan specified in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement) of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn 
from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Accounts for 
Parts A.1, A.3, B, C and D.2 of the Project on account of the cost 
of works, goods and services for Parts A.1,A.3, B, C and D.2 of 
the Project, to be financed under a Subsidiary Loan out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories 
(1) to (2). 
 
(iii) 
The Utilities shall pay to the Borrower: (i) interest on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at the rate applicable from time to 
time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of 
this Agreement; and (ii) a front-end fee equal to the rate 
applicable to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 
of this Agreement on the amount of the Subidiary Loan. 
 
(iv) 
The Utilities shall repay to the Borrower the principal amount of 
the Subsidiary Loan in accordance with an amortization 
schedule, as set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, not 
exceeding the maturity of the Loan, inclusive of a grace period 
not exceeding five (5) years. 
 
(v) 
The Utilities shall at all times function and organize itself 
pursuant to the organizational principles set forth in paragraph 
A.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MOF shall exercise its rights under 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, said 
agreements or any provisions thereof. 
- 32 -
3. 
Part B and C of the Project: Criteria for Utilities Selection
For the purposes of carrying out Parts A.1, A.3, B, C and D.2 of the Project, 
water, wastewater and solid waste utilities have been selected under terms satisfactory to 
the Bank or will be selected according to agreed criteria set forth in the Operations 
Manual. 
 
4. 
Parts B and C of the Project: Environmental Management Plan
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the MHCS carry 
out and shall cause the Utilities to carry out the measures identified under the 
Environmental Management Plan at all times in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate 
information on the implementation of said measures is suitably included in the Project 
progress reports to be prepared pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this 
Schedule. 
 
The Borrower, through MHCS, shall ensure that all measures necessary for the 
carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner 
and that all legal and administrative urban planning and permits from the Borrower’s 
environmental executive authorities and authorizations necessary to carry out Parts B and 
C of the Project are secured in a timely manner and with due diligence. 
 
Part C: Progress and Evaluation and Monitoring Reporting
1. 
Progress Reports 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the MHCS, shall, commencing on June 30, 2008 and 
thereafter, not later than March 1 and September 1 in each calendar year and until Project 
completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank a semi-annual progress report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the 
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project during the preceding six (6) months of the calendar year.   
 
2. 
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through MHCS, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31, 2009, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
- 33 -
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by February 28, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
