CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4870-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rampur Hydropower Project) 
 
between 
 
SATLUJ JAL VIDYUT NIGAM LIMITED 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 15, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4870-IN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 15, 2008, between SATLUJ JAL VIDYUT NIGAM 
LIMITED (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in Appendix I to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
Appendix I to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million Dollars 
($400,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the amount of said fee. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Memorandum and Articles of Association has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Execution Agreement has been terminated, or has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, replaced or waived so as to: (i) affect materially 
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement; or (ii) affect materially and adversely 
the ability of Himachal Pradesh to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Bank has determined that a fraudulent or corrupt activity has 
occurred in the carrying out of the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 4.01 of this  
Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V – TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Chairman and Managing Director.   
 
3
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Himfed Building 
New Shimla - 171009 
Himachal Pradesh, India 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SATLUJ JAL VIDYUT NIGAM LIMITED 
 
By /s/ H. K. Sharma 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Isabel M. Guerrero 
 
 
 
 
Country Director, India 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the reliability of India’s 
Northern Electricity Grid through the addition of renewable, low carbon energy from the 
Project; and (b) to improve the effectiveness of the Borrower with respect to the 
preparation and safe implementation of economically, environmentally and socially 
sustainable hydropower projects. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Rampur Scheme   
 
Construction of the 412 MW Rampur run-of-the-river hydropower electricity 
generation scheme with a gross head of about 139 meters situated downstream of the 
power station of Nathpa Jhakri Scheme on the Satluj River in the State of Himachal 
Pradesh of the Guarantor consisting, inter alia, of the following: 
(a) 
construction of a river diversion tunnel and a river crossing tunnel from 
the tailrace of the Nathpa Jhakri Project to act as a breaking cistern for 
the conduction of water to the headrace tunnel referred to in (b) below of 
this Part 1 of the Project; 
 
(b) 
construction of a headrace tunnel of about 15 kilometers in length and 
about 10.5 meters in diameter to take water from the tailrace of the 
Nathpa Jhakri Project through the tunnels referred to in (a) above of this 
Part 1 of the project to the head of three (3) penstocks referred to in (c) 
below of this Part 1 of the Project; 
 
(c) 
construction of three (3) above-ground, surface-mounted steel penstocks, 
and six (6) branch penstocks, to deliver the water to drive turbines in the 
powerhouse referred to in (d) below of this Part 1 of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
construction of a surface powerhouse on the right bank of the Satluj 
River near the village of Bael, including acquisition and installation of 
turbine generators, generator transformers and electro-mechanical 
equipment in the powerhouse. 
 
2.  
Improving the Availability of the Nathpa Jhakri Power Plant 
 
Carrying out investment measures for ensuring higher availability of the Nathpa 
Jhakri Power Plant, including: (a) the provision of spare parts, runners and interventions 
at the Nathpa intake to combat the deleterious impact of silt affecting that plant; and  
5
(b) other investment measures that may be identified based on the results of model tests 
and other investigations for containing silt in the Nathpa Jhakri Project. 
 
3.  
Institutional Strengthening 
 
Carrying out a program of institutional reform and capacity building to 
strengthen the Borrower’s ability to prepare, implement and manage the development, 
operation and maintenance of hydropower projects in accordance with international best 
practices focusing, inter alia, on: (a) planning and management of environment and social 
issues; (b) contract management skills; (c) safety and health aspects; and (d) financial 
accountability and corporate governance. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Execution 
Agreement and fulfill all its obligations set out in that agreement with 
due diligence and efficiency and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, 
provided however, that the implementation of Annexure 1 to the 
Execution Agreement relating to resettlement and rehabilitation activities 
shall be as supplemented by the provisions contained in the Resettlement 
Action Plan; 
 
(b) 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and electricity-
utilities practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
 
(c) 
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and utility practices; and  
 
(d) 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers or make other provisions 
satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resettlement Action Plan and the Sustainable Community Development 
Plan; and 
 
(b) 
implement the Resettlement Action Plan and the Sustainable Community 
Development Plan in accordance with the objectives, policies, time 
schedule and other provisions contained in each such Plan, all in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank, and shall not amend, waive or abrogate 
any provision of any such Plan without the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
3.    
The Borrower shall not initiate the implementation of any construction activities 
on any part of the land required for the Project until such time, in respect of that part of 
the land:  
7
(a) 
a determination is made of the number of persons who will need to be 
displaced and physically relocated from the land to another location as a 
result of the implementation of the Project activities; 
 
(b) 
compensation, including rehabilitation grant, if applicable, has been paid 
to the persons, identified in sub-paragraph (a) above, for any loss of land 
or other assets for the purpose of the Project activities; 
 
(c) 
depending upon the option selected by the persons, identified in sub-
paragraph (a), above, either: (i)  adequate arrangements have been made 
for timely payment of rental allowance and housing construction grant 
and developed plots of land with adequate facilities have been allotted, to 
these persons; or (ii) permanent relocation sites with adequate facilities 
have been prepared; or (iii) adequate arrangements have been made for 
timely payment of assistance for site and construction to these persons; 
 
(d) 
all assistance required for relocation, including payment of moving 
expenses, have been provided to the persons, identified in sub-paragraph 
(a), above; and  
 
(e) 
relocation of the persons, identified in sub-paragraph (a) above, has been 
completed in the permanent relocation sites; 
 
all in accordance with the principles and the provisions of the Resettlement Action Plan 
and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.     
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out measures satisfactory to the Bank for improving the living 
standard of persons affected by the implementation of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Action Plan; 
 
(b) 
carry out two (2) studies, in accordance with, terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to assess the impact of the implementation of the 
Resettlement Action Plan on changes in the living standard of persons 
affected by the implementation of the Project, the first such study to be 
completed no later than December 31, 2009 and the second such study to 
be completed no later than December 31, 2012; 
 
(c) 
discuss the results of each such study with the Bank promptly after its 
completion and, taking into account the recommendations of the Bank, 
take appropriate measures satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
8
(d) 
monitor the implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan and the 
measures for improving the living standard of persons referred to in this 
paragraph 4 through an external agency under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank; the monitoring shall be carried out on a quarterly 
basis during the first year of implementation of the Project and semi-
annually thereafter, and promptly after completion of the monitoring, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the results of the 
monitoring. 
 
5.    
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
appoint, prior to the mobilization of each main civil works contract for 
the construction of the Rampur Scheme, and thereafter maintain safety 
officers to oversee the safety aspects during the construction of the 
Rampur Scheme; 
 
(b) 
establish no later than December 31, 2007, and thereafter, retain a Safety 
Panel until the commencement of operations of the Rampur Scheme; 
 
(c) 
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, require the Safety Panel to visit 
the site of the Rampur Scheme on a quarterly basis for the first year of 
Project implementation, and thereafter, on a biannual basis, to inspect and 
evaluate the safety status of the construction of the Rampur scheme, and 
provide written reports of findings and recommendations for any safety 
related measures; 
 
(d) 
implement the measures recommended by the Safety Panel; 
 
(e) 
carry out periodic dam safety reviews of the Nathpa Jhakri Project and 
implement the recommendations emanating from such review, including 
making any changes that may be required to the Operations and 
Maintenance Manual; and 
 
(f) 
carry out the operation and maintenance of the Nathpa Jhakri Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operations and Maintenance 
Manual. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental Management Plan; and 
 
(b) 
implement the Environmental Management Plan in accordance with the 
objectives, policies, time schedule and other provisions contained in the 
plan, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and shall not amend, waive 
9
or abrogate any provision of the plan without the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the 
evacuation of power generated from the Rampur Scheme, including implementing 
adequate environment and social safeguards in respect of these arrangements. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall implement the aspects of the Catchment Area Treatment Plan 
and the Compensatory Afforestation Plan that are within its sphere of responsibility and 
provide all support and cooperation to Himachal Pradesh as may be required in order to 
facilitate the implementation of the Catchment Area Treatment Plan and the 
Compensatory Afforestation Plan by Himachal Pradesh. 
 
9. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the investment measures referred to in 
Part 2(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan based on proposals made by the Borrower provided they meet the 
following criteria and are approved by the Bank for financing:  
 
(a) 
the investment is technically and operationally justified and has been 
formulated after taking into account other alternative investments;  
 
(b) 
the investment is economically and financially justified;  
 
(c) 
the appropriate state or central government or statutory authorities have 
provided all required clearances and approvals for implementing the 
investment, including environment and forest clearances prior to 
initiation of construction of those elements where such clearances are  
required;  
 
(d) 
the investment has adequate financing, procurement and implementation 
plans;  
 
(e) 
the investment complies with the Borrower’s environmental policy and it 
has carried out an environmental impact assessment and prepared an 
environmental mitigation plan, and where applicable, a resettlement and 
rehabilitation plan or other development plan for adversely affected 
people, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(f) 
the investment shall be for activities that are consistent with the 
development objectives of the Project; and  
 
(g) 
such additional criteria as may be specified by the Bank for each 
investment. 
 
10
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Financial Management and Financial 
Ratios
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2012. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
4. 
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than 
one (1) month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
six (6) months after the end of such period. The Borrower shall, in addition, prepare an 
internal audit report for each Fiscal Year and furnish this report to the Bank, together 
with details of actions taken to address the issues identified in such report, not later than 
three (3) months after the end of such Fiscal Year. 
6. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
take all necessary steps to maintain its accounts receivable at a level not 
exceeding an amount equivalent to its billing for energy generation for 
the preceding three (3) months; and 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31 of each year, its ten-year 
financial projections, including its investment program and financing 
plan. 
 
7. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur 
any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 4 to 1. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of this Section: 
11
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities. 
 
(iv) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
12
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except, as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions agreed with 
the Bank 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
(d)  Force Account 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For the purpose of Section 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely of national consultants. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
13
(c)  Least-Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Single Source Selection 
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:   
 
(a)  
each contract for goods or works procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding;  
 
(b)  
first contract for goods procured on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding; 
 
(c)  
first contract for works procured on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding;  
 
(d)  
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or 
more;  
 
(e)  
each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$10,000 and procured on the basis of Direct Contracting;  
 
(f)  
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm selected on the 
basis of procedures other than Single Source Selection for assignments 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more;  
 
(g)  
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm selected on a 
Single Source Selection basis for assignments estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more. In addition, the following prior review 
procedures shall apply to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole source basis) 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:  
 
(i) 
the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience 
of candidates, terms of reference and conditions of employment 
of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval; 
14
 
(ii)  
the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval 
shall have been given; and  
 
(iii)  
the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to the contract; and 
 
(h) 
the following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source 
basis:  
 
(i) 
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval;  
 
(ii)  
the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval 
shall have been given; and  
 
(iii) 
the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to the contract.  
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
15
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed
(1) Goods, works, training, 
and consultants’ 
services for the Project 
 
399,000,000 
 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
1,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
400,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed eighty million Dollars ($80,000,000) equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2007 for 
Eligible Expenditures under Category (1). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2013. 
 
16
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan 
Payable 
(Expressed in dollars�) 
 
May 15, 2013  
  8,570,000 
November 15, 2013 
  8,820,000 
May 15, 2014  
  9,075,000 
November 15, 2014 
  9,335,000 
May 15, 2015  
  9,605,000 
November 15, 2015 
  9,880,000 
May 15, 2016  
10,165,000 
November 15, 2016 
10,455,000 
May 15, 2017 
10,760,000 
November 15, 2017 
11,070,000 
May 15, 2018  
11,385,000 
November 15, 2018 
11,715,000 
May 15, 2019  
12,050,000 
November 15, 2019 
12,400,000 
May 15, 2020  
12,755,000 
November 15, 2020 
13,125,000 
May 15, 2021  
13,500,000 
November 15, 2021 
13,890,000 
May 15, 2022  
14,290,000 
November 15, 2022 
14,705,000 
May 15, 2023  
15,125,000 
November 15, 2023 
15,560,000 
May 15, 2024  
16,010,000 
November 15, 2024 
16,470,000 
May 15, 2025 
16,945,000 
November 15, 2025 
17,435,000 
May 15, 2026  
17,935,000 
November 15, 2026 
18,450,000 
May 15, 2027  
18,985,000 
November 15, 2027 
19,535,000 
 
                                                 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.08 of the General Conditions. 
 
 
17
APPENDIX I 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Catchment Area Treatment Plan” means the Plan of Himachal Pradesh dated 
April 7, 2006 aimed, inter alia, at  reducing the sediment load in river Satluj, 
upstream of the Project, and protecting the watersheds in the Project’s area of 
influence, including area treatment, soil conservation, and improvement of 
degraded forest areas. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
 
3. 
“Compensatory Afforestation Plan” means the plan of Himachal Pradesh dated 
March 31, 2006 aimed at compensating the loss of forest land acquired for the 
purpose of implementing the Project. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s Plan dated  
April 7, 2007, setting out the arrangements and procedures for managing the 
adverse environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of the Project. 
 
6. 
“Execution Agreement” means the agreement dated October 20, 2004, entered 
into between the State of Himachal Pradesh and the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam 
Limited for the execution of the Rampur Hydro Electric Project on the River 
Satluj in District Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year “ means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower, the Guarantor or Himachal 
Pradesh, as the case may be, beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending 
on March 31 of the following calendar year.  
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modifications set forth in Appendix II to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Himachal Pradesh” means the State of Himachal Pradesh of India or any 
successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“Memorandum and Articles of Association” means the documents dated  
May 23, 1988, governing, inter alia, the incorporation, powers, functions, and 
operational procedures of the Borrower as may be amended from time to time. 
 
11. 
“Nathpa Jhakri Power Plant” means the power plant in the Nathpa Jhakri Project. 
 
 
18
12. 
“Nathpa Jhakri Project” means the project financed by the Bank under Loan 
Agreement Number 3024 dated May 18, 1989. 
 
13. 
“Operations and Maintenance Manual” means the Borrower’s Manual dated 
March 15, 2007, for operating and maintaining the Nathpa Jhakri Project.  
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 17, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of those paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Rampur Scheme” means the scheme described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the Borrower’s Plan dated March 29, 2007, 
setting out the arrangements and procedures for the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of people affected by the implementation of the Project. 
 
18. 
“Safety Panel” means a panel consisting of an international safety expert and a 
national safety expert as envisaged in the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
19. 
“Sustainable Community Development Plan” means the Borrower’s Plan dated 
March 29, 2007, for the provision of infrastructure facilities for the benefit of 
communities in the Project area. 
 
 
19
APPENDIX II 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
The last line in Section 1.01 is deleted. 
 
2. 
The reference to “Section 3.01 (b)” in Section 2.07 (b) is replaced with the 
reference “Section 3.01”. 
 
3. 
Section 3.01 is deleted in its entirety and substituted with the following 
provision: 
 
 
Section 3.01. Front-end Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on 
the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”). 
 
4. 
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.02, Interest, to read as follows: 
 
 
(a) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the 
Default Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified 
in the Loan Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant 
to Article IV as a result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  
Interest at the Default Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default 
Interest Period and shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment 
Date. 
 
5. 
Paragraph 19 in the list of definitions in the Appendix is deleted in its entirety 
and subsequent paragraphs 20 through 27 are renumbered as paragraphs 19 
through 26, respectively. Existing paragraphs 27 through 91 are renumbered as 
paragraphs 31 through 95, respectively. 
 
6. 
New paragraphs 27, 28, 29, and 30 are inserted in the list of definitions in the 
Appendix to read as follows: 
 
27. 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue 
amount remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such Default Interest 
Period shall commence on the 31st day following the date on which such amount 
becomes overdue, and the final such Default Interest Period shall end on the date 
at which such amount is fully paid.” 
 
28. 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
 
 
 
20
 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan: Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
 
 
 
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default Interest 
Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately prior to the 
application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default Variable Rate plus 
one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
 
 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default Interest 
Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately prior to the 
application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default LIBOR plus the Fixed 
Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%). 
 
28. 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be 
equal to LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in Section 
3.02 (d) first becomes overdue. 
 
 
29. 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default 
Variable Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which 
the amount referred to in Section 3.02 (d) first becomes overdue. 
 
7. 
The definition of “Fixed Spread” in paragraph 44 in the list of definitions in the 
Appendix (as renumbered pursuant to item 4 above) is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan Currency in 
effect at 12:0 1 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of 
the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted 
on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and 
provided further that notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining 
the Default Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of 
such amount. 
 
8. 
The reference to “Section 3.01 (b)” in paragraph 47 in the list of definitions in the 
Appendix (as renumbered pursuant to item 4 above) is replaced with the 
reference “Section 3.01”. 
 
 
 
21
9. 
The definition of “LIBOR Reset Date” in paragraph 60 in the list of definitions in 
the Appendix (as renumbered pursuant to item 4 above) is amended to read as 
follows. 
 
 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means:  
 
 
 
(a)  
for any Loan Currency other than Euro, the day two London 
Banking Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period (or: (i) 
in the case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the 
day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month 
preceding the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided 
that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth day 
of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset 
Date shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth 
day of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed 
Spread Loan, the day two London Banking Days prior to the first or 
fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, 
whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; 
provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or 
fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) 
if the Conversion Date of a Currency Conversion of an amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency other than Euro 
falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion 
Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion Date; 
provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of 
such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date);  
 
 
(b)  
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first 
day of the relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest 
Period for a Variable Spread Loan, the day two Target Settlement Days 
prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in which the 
Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan 
Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the 
Loan Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two 
Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of such month; (ii) in 
the case of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the day 
two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the 
month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day 
immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; provided that if 
the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth day of such 
month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement 
 
 
22
Days prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion 
Date of a Currency Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance to Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial 
LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two 
Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in 
which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes 
the Conversion Date; provided that if the Conversion Date falls on the 
first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the 
Approved Currency shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to 
the Conversion Date); and  
 
 
(c)  
notwithstanding sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, 
for a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the Bank 
determines that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR 
Reset Date is on a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be such other date, as further specified in the 
Conversion Guidelines. 
 
10. 
The definition of “Loan Payment” in paragraph 67 in the list of definitions in the 
Appendix (as renumbered pursuant to item 4 above) is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
 
 “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the Bank 
pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not 
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end 
Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any 
transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any 
premium payable upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar, and any Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower. 
 
11. 
The definition of “Payment Date” in paragraph 72 in the list of definitions in the 
Appendix (as renumbered pursuant to item 4 above) is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement occurring on 
or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable. 
 
12. 
The terms “the Project Implementing Entity” or “Project Implementing Entity” 
wherever used in the following provisions of the General Conditions, are 
modified to read “Himachal Pradesh”:  Sections 5.02(a), 5.05, 5.08(b), 5.08(c), 
5.11, 7.02(b)(ii), 7.02(d)(i), 7.02(h), 7.02(j), 7.03(c), 7.07(b)(ii), 7.07(e), 8.02, 
9.01(a), 9.02, 9.03, 9.04, 10.02, 10.03, and paragraphs 77 and 78 (definitions of 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Address” and “Project Implementing Entity’s 
Representative” as renumbered pursuant to item 4 above) in the list of definitions 
in the Appendix (of the General Conditions).  All other references in the General 
 
 
23
Conditions to “the Project Implementing Entity” or “Project Implementing 
Entity” shall be disregarded. 
 
13. 
The definition of “Project Agreement” in paragraph 75 to the Appendix (of the 
General Conditions) is deleted and substituted by the following definition: 
 
 
The “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Himachal 
Pradesh regarding the carrying out of the Project. 
 
14. 
The definition of “Project Implementing Entity” in paragraph 76 to the Appendix 
(of 
the 
General 
Conditions) 
is 
deleted.
 
