CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7437-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
Municipal Lending Program I: 
Uberaba Água Viva Project 
 
(Projeto de Recuperação Ambiental da Bacia do Rio Uberaba e Revitalização do 
Sistema de Abastecimento de Água) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF UBERABA 
 
Dated May 19, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7437-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2008, between the  INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
(the 
Bank) 
and 
the 
MUNICIPALITY OF UBERABA (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank 
(the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and 
(C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. (a) Except as otherwise provided in (b) below the “General 
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of 
the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended through May 1, 2004) with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or 
- 2 -
on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to 
in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be 
consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(ii) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
Articles III and IV of the “General Conditions for Loans” of the Bank dated July 1, 2005 
(as amended through October 17, 2007) (the 2007 General Conditions), as well as the 
definitions set forth in the Appendix of the 2007 General Conditions of the terms used in 
said Articles III and IV, constitute an integral part of this Agreement with respect to 
Article II and Schedule III of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in Section 1.01 of this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“APA” means Área de Proteção Ambiental, the hydrographic basin area 
of the Uberaba river upstream of the existing dam, with an area of about 463 square 
kilometers, which was defined by Law No. 13183, of January 21, 1999, of the State of 
Minas Gerais, as an environmental protected area; 
(b) 
“CODAU” 
means 
Centro 
Operacional 
de 
Desenvolvimento e 
Saneamento de Uberaba, the Borrower’s entity responsible for water supply and 
sanitation services in the Borrower’s territory; 
(c) 
“COFIEX” means Comissão de Financiamentos Externos,
the 
Guarantor’s Commission of External Borrowings, within the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
Planning, Budget and Management, and governed by the Guarantor’s Decree (Decreto) 
No. 3502, of June 12, 2000; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (2) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
- 3 -
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan presented by the 
Borrower to the Bank on March 15, 2005, with the actions and recommendations to 
avoid, minimize, mitigate or compensate the negative impacts on the environment and 
natural habitats resulting from the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project, as well as 
to maximize positive impacts and enhance the performance of the Project’s 
environmental management initiatives; 
(g) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“MIS” means the Project monitoring and information system referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Operational Manual” means a manual satisfactory to the Bank, outlining 
policies, financial management, procurement and disbursement procedures, as well as 
implementation and monitoring procedures for the Project, as such manual may be 
amended from date to date with the Bank’s prior approval; 
 (j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
January 29, 2007, covering the initial 18 month period of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(k) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Secretariat of Environment”, means the Borrower’s Secretaria de Meio-
Ambiente or any successor thereto; 
(m) 
“Secretariat of Infrastructure”, means the Borrower’s Secretaria de 
Infra-Estrutura or any successor thereto; 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
- 4 -
(o) 
“UGP” means Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto, the Project 
management unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, established pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Law No. 9.750 dated July 12, 2005 and published in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette N° 586 on August 27, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventeen 
million two hundred seventy thousand Dollars ($17,270,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 
of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 2007 General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2012, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that COFIEX has 
recommended the extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date recommended by 
COFIEX. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one quarter of one percent (0.25%)  of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 2007 General 
Conditions. 
- 5 -
Section 2.06. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. 
(a)  The Borrower may at any time request, with the prior non-
objection of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the Appendix 
(19) of the 2007  General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the 2007 General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 2007 General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement. 
- 6 -
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through the UGP with the assistance of CODAU, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, administrative, environmental, 
sanitation, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions 
and/or recommendations of the Environmental Management Plan and the Operational 
Manual; and (ii) cause the contractors that will carry out civil works under the Project to 
perform their construction work in accordance with the environmental practices set out in 
the manual issued by the Borrower on March 15, 2005. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain a unit (the UGP) responsible for the management and supervision 
of the Project, such unit to have functions, responsibilities and structure satisfactory to the 
Bank, as shall be required to ensure an efficient execution of the Project, and as defined in 
the Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
not later than six months after the Effective Date, employ, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III.A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, a project management 
consulting firm to assist the UGP in the management, implementation and supervision of 
- 7 -
the Project, and to provide support to the UGP in administrative, technical and financial 
matters relating to the carrying out of the Project. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain a Project monitoring and information system in the UGP, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the MIS), to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an on-going 
basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during 
Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review such report with the Bank promptly after its preparation, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain, a financial management system 
in the UGP, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
- 8 -
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
- 9 -
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (the 
FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Loan has been duly registered by the 
Guarantor's Central Bank. 
 
Section 5.02. 
The date August 18, 2008 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
- 10 -
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Mayor of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Prefeitura Municipal de Uberaba 
 
Av. Dom Luís Maria de Santana, 141 
 
 
Bairro Santa Marta 
 
CEP: 38.061-080 - Uberaba, Minas Gerais 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-34 3318-2014) 
 
With copy to: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda 
 
Av. Dom Luís Maria Santana, 141 
Bairro Santa Marta 
 
CEP: 38.061-080 – Uberaba, Minas Gerais 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-34 3318-0620) 
 
Unidade de Gestão do Projeto Água Viva – UGP  
 
Avenida da Saudade, n.755  
 
Bairro Mercês, 
 
CEP: 38.061-000 – Uberaba, Minas Gerais  
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-34 3318-6055)  
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão - SEAIN 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 - Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61 3225-4022) 
- 11 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF UBERABA 
 
By /s/ Anderson Adauto Pereira 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative  
 
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the Loan 
% of 
 
Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Goods, Works and 
 
Non-consultant services 
13,653,969 
80% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services  
3,572,856 
100% 
 
and training 
 
(3) Fee  
43,175 
Amount due  
 
under Section  
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(4)  Premia for Interest  
 
0 
 
Amount due 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
 
 
under Section 
Rate Collars 
 
 
 
 
2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 
17,270,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and Non-consultant services 
costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract; (b) works costing less than the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 per contract;  (c) services of consulting firms costing less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 per contract; (d) services of individual consultants costing less than 
the equivalent of $50,000 per contract; and (e) training. 
- 14 -
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
B. 
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements; 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) 
- 15 -
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
- 16 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $1,700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount 
of $1,100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $3,300,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
- 17 -
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
- 18 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to promote better living conditions for the 
Borrower’s residents through the promotion of integrated urban sanitation, environmental 
preservation, expanded parks, and recreational and cultural opportunities. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A: Environmental Sanitation
1. 
Construction of interceptor sewers in the central area of Uberaba city, interceptor 
sewers for the sanitary sewage systems of the Uberaba and Conquistinha rivers, and the 
waste water treatment plants of the Uberaba and Conquistinha rivers, including 
acquisition of the land required for such works. 
2. 
Development of a macro drainage system to reduce the incidence of flooding in 
the central area of Uberaba city, which will include the existing Leopoldino retention 
basin, reinforcement of the existing system of canals and galleries and a system of flood 
control in the Lajes basin. 
3. 
(a) Regularization of the flow of the Uberaba river and of the Borrower’s main 
water supply by making permanent the seasonal transfer of water from the Claro river to 
the Uberaba river; and (b) carrying out of a program to reduce water losses, including 
modernization of CODAU’s commercial operations, improvements and automation in the 
operations of the water supply system and water treatment plant, and acquisition of land 
required for such works. 
Part B: Environmental and Cultural Preservation and Recovery
1. 
Carrying out of activities aimed at improving collection of information regarding 
occupation and uses of the resources within the APA with the specific aim of better 
managing and protecting water resources in such area, such activities to include, inter 
alia, the preparation and implementation of an environmental management plan for the 
APA, a system of water resources management and monitoring, environmental mapping, 
and other environmental recovery actions in the APA. 
- 20 -
2. 
Development of a park (Parque da Cidade) that will serve as an environmental 
enhancement of land acquired for the installation of part of the interceptor sewage 
network under Part A of the Project, such development to include re-forestation actions 
and installation of equipment. 
3. 
Provision of support to the Llewellyn Ivor Price Paleontology Research Center 
(Centro de Pesquisas Paleontológicas Llewellyn Ivor Price) by developing a marketing, 
communication and business plan to leverage funding for restructuring the rescue and 
salvage capacity of such center, addressing: reforming and expanding the dinosaur 
museum; reforming the research labs; reforming the center for tourism, learning and 
educational extension; improving the grounds around the center; purchasing equipment 
for the thematic children’s park; and improving the paleontology garden. 
Part C: Planning and Management
1. 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s Secretariat of Environment, including, inter alia, 
development of a strategic plan for such Secretariat. 
2. 
Carrying out of: (a) a public education campaign aimed at creating an 
environmental culture in the Borrower’s territory, with particular emphasis on water 
resources; and (b) a social communication campaign to make the Borrower’s population 
aware of the Project, and in particular with respect to the Project investments. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance and training in project planning and 
management to the staff of CODAU and the Borrower’s Secretariat of Infrastructure and 
Secretariat of Environment, and other agencies of the Borrower involved with the Project. 
4. 
Provision of support to the Borrower, through the provision of technical 
assistance, in Project management, implementation and supervision. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2012. 
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
Installment Share
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 
Beginning September 15, 2012 
 
 
through September 15, 2023 
4.17% 
 
On March 15, 2024 
 
4.09% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
- 22 -
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and non-consultant services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultant Services
A. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, goods and non-consultant 
services estimated cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, and works estimated 
to cost less than $16,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional 
provisions, using bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, in a standardized form for 
the Project: 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 
- 24 -
of the Procurement Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always 
be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
in at least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil; 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
2. 
Shopping
Goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping using a 
standard request for quotations acceptable to the Bank.  The use of Electronic Pregão 
will be acceptable in lieu of Shopping for Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract.   
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. 
Other Procedures
1. 
Least-cost Selection.
Services for assignments costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
- 25 -
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. Services for assignments costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraphs 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review: (a) the first contract for 
goods and non-consultant services (despite of the amount) and each following contract 
for goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or 
more; (b) the first contract for works (despite of the amount) and each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (c) the first contract for 
consultants’ services (despite of the amount) and each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (d)  the first 
contract for consultant’s services (despite of the amount); and each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
