CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7580-CN 
Loan Agreement 
 
Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex Project 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 28, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated November 28, 2008, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
On each of the semiannual Payment Dates specified in Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, the interest 
on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up to the 
amount allocated in, Category (4) of the table in paragraph A.2, Section IV, 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Category may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
3
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve utilization of the Gan River in the 
Jiangxi Province of the Borrower for more reliable freight transport and for cleaner 
energy production through: (a) improving inland waterway transport capacity and service 
levels for primary and secondary industries in the Nanchang-Ganzhou corridor of the Gan 
River; and (b) generating renewable electricity to help meet rapidly growing demand for 
energy in the region. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
A. 
Shihutang Complex 
 
1. 
Construction of the Shihutang Complex as a single integral infrastructure unit 
that will form a reservoir with a designed normal pool water elevation of  
about 56.5 m consisting of the following:  
 
(a) 
construction of 23 sets of dam sluice gates to regulate flows;   
 
(b) 
construction of a Grade III single ship lock through the dam referred to 
in clause (d) of this Part A.1 of the Project measuring 180 (length) x 23 
(width) x 3.5 (depth) meters;  
 
(c) 
construction of a powerhouse built within the dam referred to in clause 
(d) of this Part A.1 of the Project, with an installed capacity of 120 MW, 
with a generating capacity of about 526.5 GWh of electricity per year;  
 
(d) 
construction of two sections of a dam for a total length of about 931 m to 
connect the structures to both banks of the Gan River at Shihutang in, 
Jiangxi; and 
 
(e) 
construction of a dam crest access road across the top of the dam referred 
to in clause (d) of this Part A.1 of the Project including a crest bridge to 
allow for river crossing. 
 
B. 
Flood Protection Works 
 
1. 
Construction of flood protection works consisting of approximately 43 km of 
dikes, about 56 km of diversion canals, about six sets of pumping stations, about 
two sets of free drainage sluices and about two sets of regulating sluices. 
 
6
C. 
Technical Assistance  
 
1. 
Strengthening the institutional and technical capacities of JANA and JPMO 
through: 
 
(a) 
carrying out of a study on the optimization of reservoir operation in order 
to maximize the benefits of navigation, power generation and flood 
protection of the Shihutang Complex, including the feasibility of a 
coordinated operation mechanism for the interrelated dams currently 
existing and planned to be developed on the Gan River in Jiangxi; 
 
(b) 
carrying out of a study on technology for waterway treatment aimed, 
inter alia, at determining measures to overcome insufficient water depth 
at the 17 km section of river channel immediately below the dam referred 
to in clause (d) of Part A.1 of the Project, and complementing the 
engineering design of the Project; and  
 
(c) 
carrying out of a capacity building program consisting of, inter alia,
international and domestic training and study tours aimed at 
strengthening JANA/JPMO’s capacities in inland water transport 
management, waterway development and maintenance, construction 
management, hydropower plant operation, and management of 
cumulative impacts at watershed level. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Onlending Arrangements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, 
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include the following:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.  
 
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of twenty five (25) years, inclusive of a grace period of eight (8) years. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
A front-end fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Wan’an Dam and Water Release 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all actions necessary or required to address all 
findings and recommendations made by the Dam Safety Panel from time to time 
during Project implementation with respect to any remedial work or safety 
measures necessary to maintain/upgrade the Wan’an Dam to an acceptable 
standard of safety are taken on a timely basis and in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall take all actions as may be necessary or required in order to 
ensure the compliance of the Water Release Agreement by its parties thereto as 
agreed with the Bank. 
 
8
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the closing date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
9
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except 
as 
otherwise 
provided 
in  
paragraph 3 below, works costing less than $20,000,000 equivalent per contract  
and goods costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, subject to 
the additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below. 
 
3. 
National Competitive Bidding Procedure. The procedures to be followed for 
National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering 
and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of 
the President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement 
Guidelines: 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except for civil works 
contracts that are estimated cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each and 
for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily 
newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty 
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in 
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
10
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the Borrower or Project Implementing Entity, as the case may 
be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding 
documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Borrower or Project Implementing Entity, as the case 
may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they can 
establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) 
11
operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the 
agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3). 
 
4. 
Shopping. Works and goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  
Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(c)  
Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (b) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more;    
(c) the first contract for works and goods respectively awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding procedures; (d) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
(e) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more; and (f) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm or an individual procured on the basis of Single 
Source Selection estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more. All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
12
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) 
Works under Part A of 
the Project 
 
41,190,000 
60% 
(2) 
Goods under Part A of 
the Project 
 
50,400,000 
100% 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
and training under Part 
C of the Project 
 
380,000 
100% 
(4) 
Interest during 
construction 
7,780,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement 
 
(5) 
Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
 
13
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2008 for 
Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
March 15, 2017 
1.90% 
September 15, 2017 
1.95% 
March 15, 2018 
2.00% 
September 15, 2018 
2.05% 
March 15, 2019 
2.10% 
September 15, 2019 
2.15% 
March 15, 2020 
2.20% 
September 15, 2020 
2.26% 
March 15, 2021 
2.32% 
September 15, 2021 
2.37% 
March 15, 2022 
2.43% 
September 15, 2022 
2.49% 
March 15, 2023 
2.56% 
September 15, 2023 
2.62% 
March 15, 2024 
2.69% 
September 15, 2024 
2.75% 
March 15, 2025 
2.82% 
September 15, 2025 
2.89% 
March 15, 2026 
2.96% 
September 15, 2026 
3.04% 
March 15, 2027 
3.11% 
September 15, 2027 
3.19% 
March 15, 2028 
3.27% 
September 15, 2028 
3.35% 
March 15, 2029 
3.44% 
September 15, 2029 
3.52% 
March 15, 2030 
3.61% 
15
September 15, 2030 
3.70% 
March 15, 2031 
3.79% 
September 15, 2031 
3.89% 
March 15, 2032 
3.99% 
September 15, 2032 
4.09% 
March 15, 2033 
4.19% 
September 15, 2033 
4.31% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
16
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
17
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“CGC” means the China Guodian Corporation, a state-owned power company of 
the Borrower that owns and operates the Wan’an Dam. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Dam Safety Panel” means the panel consisting of three experts appointed by 
Jiangxi through JPMO in September 2007 for the purposes, inter alia, of 
reviewing the safety aspects of the Shihutang Complex and the Wan’an Dam. 
 
6. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of Part A 
of the Project has experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income 
sources or means of  livelihood, whether or not such person must move to 
another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
person; and “Displaced Persons” means  collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
7. 
“Emergency Preparedness Plan” means the plan of Jiangxi to be provided to the 
Dam Safety Panel and the Bank pursuant to provisions of paragraph C.6 of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement detailing, inter alia, the roles 
of responsible parties during possible emergency situations when failure of the 
Shihutang Complex may be imminent, or when expected operational flow release 
from said Scheme may threaten downstream life, property, or economic 
operations that depend on river flow levels.    
 
8. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated November 27, 2007 
and duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, and which Plan sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank. 
18
9. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity on May 4, 2008 for the purpose of implementing and 
monitoring the financial management aspects of the Project. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
11. 
“Instrumentation Plan” means the plan of Jiangxi to be provided to the Dam 
Safety Panel and the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph C.4 of  
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement detailing, inter alia, the 
instruments to be installed to monitor and record the behavior and the related 
hydrometeorological, structural, and seismic factors of the dam to be constructed 
under the Shihutang Complex. 
 
12. 
“JANA” means the Jiangxi Administration of Navigation Affairs within JPCD 
established for carrying out waterway development and maintenance in Jiangxi 
and entrusted with responsibility for managing the implementation of the Project. 
 
13. 
“Jiangxi” means the Borrower’s Jiangxi Province, or any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“JPCD” means the Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department of Jiangxi. 
 
15. 
“JPMO” means the Jiangxi Project Management Office established by JPCD 
within JANA for implementing the Project. 
 
16. 
“Operation and Maintenance Plan” means the plan of Jiangxi to be provided to 
the Dam Safety Panel and the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph C.5 
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement detailing, inter alia, the 
organizational structure, staffing, technical expertise, and training required for 
carrying out operation and maintenance of the dam to be constructed under the 
Shihutang Complex, the equipment and facilities needed to operate and maintain 
said dam, the procedures for carrying out operation and maintenance of said dam, 
and arrangements for funding said operation and maintenance, including long-
term maintenance and safety inspections. 
 
17. 
“Plan for Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance” means the plan of 
Jiangxi dated July 4, 2008 setting out, inter alia, the organization, staffing levels, 
procedures, equipment, and qualifications for supervision of the construction of 
the Shihutang Complex.  
 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
19
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated July 8, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Jiangxi. 
 
21. 
“RAP” means, the resettlement action plan dated February 15, 2008 with respect 
to Part A of the Project, duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, and 
which sets out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of 
the execution of such Part of the Project, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements  to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and such term includes 
all attachments and annexes supplemental to said Plan.  
 
22. 
“Shihutang Complex” means the multipurpose navigation and hydropower 
complex to be constructed at Shihutang on the Gan River in Jiangxi as described 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Wan’an Dam” means the dam constructed at Wan’an in Jiangxi on the Gan 
River and located upstream of the Shihutang Complex and that is owned and 
operated by CGC. 
 
24. 
“Water Release Agreement” means the agreement dated December 5, 2007 
entered into between JPMO (on behalf of Jiangxi) and CGC that regulates the 
release of water from the Wan’an dam to the Shihutang Complex. 
 
