CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7557-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(ShiZheng Railway Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 16, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 16, 2008, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars 
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Railways in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
3
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
86-10-6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong  
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to meet growing freight and passenger market 
demand in the railway corridor between Shijiazhuang and Zhengzhou, while substantially 
improving the level of service offered to customers. 
 
The Project consists of the following part, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Railway corridor between Shijiazhuang and Zhengzhou 
 
1. 
Construction of a new 355 km high-speed electrified dedicated passenger two 
track rail line between Shijiazhuang in Hebei Province and Zhengzhou in 
Henan Province, including the provision of goods (including signaling and 
electrification equipment, and concrete bridge beams) and related technical 
assistance. 
 
2. 
Construction of six new railway stations in Gaoyi, Xingtai, Handan, Anyang, 
Hebi and Xinxiang cities along the rail line referred to in Part A.1 of the 
Project including the provision of goods. 
 
3. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.  
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or 
access to productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily 
or permanently;  
 
(b) 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, the EMP, the RAP and the RAP 
Arrangements, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
furnish, or cause to be furnished, any proposed revision to the EMP or 
the RAP or the RAP Arrangements referred to in sub-paragraph (b) 
above to the Bank for its approval prior to making any revision. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
cause the Ministry of Railways to maintain throughout the period of the 
Project implementation, the independent procurement agent, referred to 
in paragraph A.3 of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose of procuring 
all goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; and 
 
(b) 
cause the Ministry of Railways, with the assistance of the Beijing 
Railway Administration and the Zhengzhou Railway Administration, to 
construct the ShiZheng Railway Line, including installing the equipment 
procured pursuant to clause (a) of this paragraph, in accordance with: 
 
(i) 
arrangements and a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
appropriate technical standards, alignment and specifications; 
and 
 
(iii) 
appropriate international standards and practices relating to 
design, installation and construction supervision, including 
standards and practices for securing, assimilating and integrating 
tested, mature and safe technology and products suitable for 
operating high-speed passenger railway lines. 
6
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Ministry of Railways and through it the Beijing 
Railway Administration and the Zhengzhou Railway Administration to maintain 
all relevant records and documents related to the Project and provide such 
documents and records, including all other information, as may be requested by 
the Borrower or the Bank from time to time. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Hebei Province, the Henan 
Province, the Ministry of Railways, the Beijing Railway Administration and the 
Zhengzhou Railway Administration to take all required actions, including 
provision of timely consents and approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the 
implementation of the Project.  
 
5.  
The Borrower shall ensure that the ShiZheng Railway Line is commissioned for 
operation no later than December 31, 2012, following appropriate testing and 
other procedures, and shall thereafter take all necessary measures to ensure that it 
is operated and maintained in a financially and administratively viable manner. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause the Hebei Province, the Henan 
Province, the Ministry of Railways, the Beijing Railway Administration and the 
Zhengzhou Railway Administration to ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than March 31, 2014. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
7
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of all goods and services 
required for the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be carried out by a qualified procurement agent engaged by the Borrower through 
the Ministry of Railways in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55  
and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
 
8
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
National Competitive Bidding. (a) Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions.   
 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s 
Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the 
People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification 
or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In 
any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to 
bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and 
the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of breach of contract 
9
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
10
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection under Fixed Budget 
(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (b) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (c) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more; 
and (d) all consultant’s contracts procured under single source selection. All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, 
inclusive of taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
11
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed 
 
(1)  Goods 
277,500,000 
100% 
 
(2)  Consultants’ services, 
training and study tours 
 
1,000,000 
100% 
 
(3)  Front-end Fee 
750,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(4)  Unallocated 
 
20,750,000 
 
Total 
300,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for:  
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) unless the RAP Arrangements 
shall have been duly executed by the Ministry of Railways with the 
Hebei Province and the Henan Province respectively, in a manner and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
12
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2
Performance Indicators
Target Values
Data Collection and Reporting
Project Outcome Indicators
Baseline
2006
2013(3)
2015
2020
Frequency
and
Reports
Data
Collection
Instruments
Responsibility
for Data
Collection
1.
Average
number
of
pairs
of
trains
of
maximum speed of 300 km/h operated per day
on the Shijiazhuang and Zhengzhou section of
the new line.
0
24
77
119
2.
Average
number
of
pairs
of
trains
of
maximum speed of 200 km/h operated per day
on the Shijiazhuang and Zhengzhou section of
the new line.
0
12
23
19(2)
3. Average travel time of 300km/h train between
Shijiazhuang and Zhengzhou (minutes) on the
same section of the new line.
0
85
85
85
4. Number of pairs of freight trains operated per
day on the Xinxiang to Zhengzhou section of the
existing railway line.(1)
56
62
67
79
On project
completion
and once a
year
thereafter.
MOR and
Project
Companies
operating
statistics
MOR
(1) Includes through luggage, container, and coupling trains. Data on the average number of pairs of freight trains operating per day on
the existing line will be collected and reported on an annual basis in the project progress reports.
(2) The decrease in the number of pairs of trains of maximum speed of 200 km/h in the later years reflects their expected replacement by
higher speed trains.
(3) Taken as the first full year of operation.
13
Baseline
Target Values
Data Collection and Reporting
Project Output Indicators
2006
2009
2010
2011
2012
Frequency
and
Reports
Data
Collection
Instruments
Responsibility
for Data
Collection
% of civil works completed
(physical % complete)
0
10
30
75
100
% of equipment contracted (by value)
0
5
15
50
100
Twice
yearly
Project
progress
report
MOR
14
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
October 15, 2013 
2.28% 
April 15, 2014 
2.34% 
October 15, 2014 
2.40% 
April 15, 2015 
2.46% 
October 15, 2015 
2.52% 
April 15, 2016 
2.58% 
October 15, 2016 
2.64% 
April 15, 2017 
2.71% 
October 15, 2017 
2.78% 
April 15, 2018 
2.85% 
October 15, 2018 
2.92% 
April 15, 2019 
2.99% 
October 15, 2019 
3.07% 
April 15, 2020 
3.14% 
October 15, 2020 
3.22% 
April 15, 2021 
3.30% 
October 15, 2021 
3.39% 
April 15, 2022 
3.47% 
October 15, 2022 
3.56% 
April 15, 2023 
3.65% 
October 15, 2023 
3.74% 
April 15, 2024 
3.83% 
October 15, 2024 
3.93% 
April 15, 2025 
4.02% 
October 15, 2025 
4.12% 
April 15, 2026 
4.23% 
October 15, 2026 
4.33% 
15
April 15, 2027 
4.44% 
October 15, 2027 
4.55% 
April 15, 2028 
4.54% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
16
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
17
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Beijing Railway Administration” means the Administration within the 
organizational structure established by the Ministry of Railways and under its 
administrative control, and responsible for assisting the Ministry of Railways in 
the management, operation and maintenance of the railway system over an 
assigned territory of the Borrower and in which a portion of the ShiZheng 
Railway Line will be constructed. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
6. 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated October 2006 and duly 
adopted by the Borrower in respect of the Project which sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
8. 
“Hebei Province” means the Hebei Province of the Borrower or any successor 
thereto. 
 
18
9. 
“Henan Province” means the Henan Province of the Borrower or any successor 
thereto. 
 
10. 
“Ministry of Railways” means the Ministry of Railways of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan dated August 15, 
2007, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 
twelve (12) month periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
13. 
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan in respect of the Project, duly adopted 
by the Borrower and the Ministry of Railways on January 5, 2007, which plan 
sets out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement 
and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
14. 
“RAP Arrangements” means collectively the arrangements to be entered into 
between the Ministry of Railways and the Hebei Province and the arrangements 
to be entered into between the Ministry of Railways and Henan Province, as 
referred to in paragraph B.1(b) of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for 
the purpose of causing the RAP to be carried out in accordance with  
paragraph 1(b) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
15. 
“Shijiazhuang” means the city of Shijiazhuang in Hebei Province. 
 
16. 
“ShiZheng Railway Line” means the railway line to be constructed under  
Part A.1 of the Project and which is part of a 2,100 km dedicated passenger line 
between Beijing and Guangzhou planned to be constructed by the Borrower  
by 2012. 
 
19
17. 
“Zhengzhou Railway Administration” means the Administration within the 
organizational structure established by the Ministry of Railways and under its 
administrative control, and responsible for assisting the Ministry of Railways in 
the management, operation and maintenance of the railway system over an 
assigned territory of the Borrower and in which a portion of the ShiZheng 
Railway Line will be constructed. 
 
18. 
“Zhengzhou” 
means 
the 
city 
of 
Zhengzhou 
in 
Henan 
Province.
 
