CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7513-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Alto Solimões Basic Service and Sustainable Development Project 
in support of the Zona Franca Verde Program) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF AMAZONAS 
 
Dated August 12, 2008  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 12, 2008, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and the STATE OF 
AMAZONAS (“The Borrower’).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. (a) 
Except as otherwise provided in (b) below, the General Conditions (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1.01. (a) of this Agreement, 
Articles III and IV of the “General Conditions for Loans” of the Bank 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 17, 2007) (the 2007 
General Conditions), as well as the definitions set forth in the Appendix of 
the 2007 General Conditions of the terms used in said Articles III and IV, 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement with respect to Article II and 
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.  
 
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-four million two hundred and 
fifty thousand Dollars ($24,250,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representatives for purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are 
its Secretary of Planning and Economic Development and its Secretary of 
Finance. 
 
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
-2- 
 
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 2007 
General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 2007 General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection of the 
Guarantor and through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National Treasury, request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program. To this end, the Borrower shall cause CIAMA, through the CIAMA 
-3- 
 
Agreement, to carry out the Project, in technical partnership with the Participating 
Secretariats, with the assistance of:  
 
(a) 
 the Selected Municipalities, through the Municipal Grant Agreements, 
with respect to Part 4(a)(i) of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the Implementing NGO, through the NGO Implementation Agreement, 
with respect to Part 4(a)(ii) of the Project; 
 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
any Implementation Entity shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under an Implementation Agreement, provided however, that 
the suspension of the Borrower’s right to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be limited by the Bank to withdrawals in respect of Project 
expenditures incurred or to be incurred by the Implementation Entity 
under its respective Implementation Agreement. 
 
(b) 
the Advisory Committee’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Advisory Committee to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project. 
 
(c) 
the SAAE’s Protocol has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SAAE to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project. 
 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the staff referred to in Section I.6(b)(i) of Schedule II to this Agreement has been 
appointed. 
 
-4- 
 
5.02. The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has 
been duly registered with the Central Bank of the Guarantor 
 
5.03. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on August 26, 2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor. 
 
6.02. The Borrower’s Address is: 
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda SEFAZ-AM 
Avenida André Araújo, 150, Aleixo 
69060-000 – Manaus, AM 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-92) 2121-1817 
 
With copy to: 
 
SEAIN – Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do Ministério do Planejamento, 
Orçamento e Gestão 
Esplanada dos Ministérios – Bloco K – 5º andar 
70040-906 Brasília, Distrito Federal 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
And with copy to: 
 
UCP –Unidade de Coordenação do Projeto  
Avenida Tefé 3279, Japiim 
69078-000 – Manaus, AM 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-92) 2123-9992 
 
6.03. The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
-5- 
 
United States of America 
-6- 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Município de Tabatinga, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
STATE OF AMAZONAS 
 
By /s/ Carlos Eduardo S. Braga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
 
Authorized Representative 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the economic and social conditions of 
the Alto Solimões Region, based on the sustainable use of natural resources and the 
strengthening of basic services and institutional development, through: (i) the 
development of policy and institutional strengthening for regional cross-sectoral 
development; (ii) the promotion of competitive environmentally and socially sustainable 
production; (iii) the increase of access to potable water and basic sanitation; and (iv) the 
improvement of health outcomes of targeted populations. 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part 1:
Policy and Institutional Strengthening for Regional and Cross-sectoral 
Development
(a) 
Design of a set of sectoral policies and definition of an institutional 
framework conducive to the promotion of sustainable development and the improvement 
of quality of life of Project beneficiaries, through: (i) the gradual development of the 
Borrower’s capacity for planning and coordinating public and private economic activities 
in the Alto Solimões Region; (ii) the institutional strengthening of the Borrower’s central 
and municipal governments to enable them to promote and accompany the development 
of environmentally sustainable economic activities, with emphasis on the decentralization 
of key functions; (iii) the promotion of dialogue between the Borrower and the federal 
government, as well as between the Borrower and stakeholders in the Alto Solimões 
Region; (iv) the collection and subsequent dissemination of relevant information 
pertaining to the sustainable use of natural resources; (v) the review of public sector 
activities in the Alto Solimões Region to identify areas for explicit coordination and 
potential synergies, for the purposes of developing a strategy for multi-sectoral, inter-
governmental coordination; (vi) the organization of a series of regional planning sessions 
involving, as the case may be, Borrower and municipalities’ officials, as well as 
representatives of the private sector, local communities, civil society and the Guarantor’s 
relevant sectoral agencies and governmental entities for the purposes of identifying a  
long-term economic potential and immediate needs for social and economic investments 
in the Alto Solimões Region; and (vii) the establishment of a monitoring and impact 
evaluation system for activities development under the Project. 
 
(b) 
Establishment of a regional management office for the purposes of 
coordinating Project activities, facilitating regional planning, monitoring and evaluation, 
introducing alternative governance arrangements and strengthening overall public sector 
management capacity. 
 
-8- 
 
(c) 
Provision of coordinated logistical support under the Project, including the 
provision of transportation services to facilitate Project-beneficiary interaction. 
 
(d) 
 Expand and improve the existing shared platform of integrated 
communication and information technology linking targeted municipalities within the 
Borrower’s territory, the regional management office, and selected public and private 
institutions, in order to facilitate distance learning, telemedicine, data collection and 
transmission worldwide, as well as the management of emergency and non-emergency 
health referrals. 
 
Part 2:
Promotion of Competitive Environmentally and Socially Sustainable 
Production
(a) 
Promotion of the development of the Alto Solimões Region based on the 
organization of competitive economic clusters fostering the sustainable use of regional 
renewable natural resources, through: (i) the review of the Borrower’s existing policy 
framework for fishery and forestry sectors and the enactment of the necessary changes to 
ensure social and environmental sustainability in said sectors; (ii) the establishment of a 
mobile control post on the confluence of the Solimões and Javari rivers to monitor the 
sustainable use of forest resources; and (iii) the institutional strengthening of the 
Borrower’s sectoral agencies responsible for providing technical assistance, monitoring 
and control of natural resources. 
 
(b) 
Contributing towards the economic efficiency of producers in the Alto 
Solimões Region, through: (i) the completion of a business development plan for each of 
the four existing productive clusters in the area (timber, non-timber, fishery and fish 
farming); and (ii) the provision of grants to Beneficiaries to carry out Productive 
Subprojects. 
 
(c) 
Provision of support to the increase of productivity of small-scale business 
carried out by local communities, including indigenous peoples, through the provision of 
grants to Beneficiaries to carry out Management Incubators Microprojects.   
 
(d) 
Development and implementation of a training and extension program to 
support the Beneficiaries of the Productive Subprojects and the micro-business 
incubators. 
 
Part 3:
Water Supply and Sanitation
(a) 
Development of a new water supply and sanitation, and solid waste 
management service models in the Borrower’s territory, through: (i) the preparation of an 
institutional, regulatory, legal, planning, operational and financial framework for water 
supply and sanitation service provision, including the preparation of the Borrower’s plan 
and regional plans for the physical, financial, institutional, operational, environmental 
-9- 
 
and social aspects of water supply and sanitation and solid waste service delivery; (ii) the 
development of a plan for the gradual substitution of the existing water supply and 
sanitation service provider by the new service delivery model; (iii) the preparation of 
selected engineering designs in Alto Solimões for water supply and sanitation and solid 
waste management interventions; and (iv) the development of new service delivery 
models  
 
(b) 
Establishment of SAAE in accordance with the parameters of Law 11.107.  
 
(c) 
Strengthening of the existing water supply systems in the Alto Solimões 
Region, through: (i) the improvement of intake, treatment, storage and distribution of 
existing systems; (ii) the improvement of the operational efficiency of their day-to-day 
running (i.e. financial and operation efficiency incentive structures, commercial and 
billing systems, and micro and macro metering); and (iii) the expansion of certain areas 
of the distribution network. 
 
(d) 
Development and piloting of sustainable service delivery models and 
appropriate technologies for the provision of rural water supply, urban sanitation and 
urban solid waste management in selected municipalities in the Alto Solimões Region, 
including the preparation of a Borrower’s manual of standard technical and service 
delivery models for water supply and sanitation, and the preparation of environmental 
education and promotional materials for urban and rural water and sanitation initiatives in 
the Borrower’s territory.  
 
(e) 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower and selected 
municipalities, and improving their interface with selected Guarantor relevant agencies, 
civil society and the private sector in planning, funding, regulation, monitoring and 
evaluation, and management of water and sanitation and solid waste services in the 
Borrower’s territory. 
 
Part 4:
Health
(a) 
Improvement of  the access to and quality of primary and secondary care 
services for populations residing in the Alto Solimões Region, through: (i) the provision 
of Municipal Grants to Selected Municipalities for the strengthening of basic health care 
services based on the Family Health Strategy; (ii)  the provision of support to FVS and 
the Selected Municipalities for the purposes of: (A) provision of support for the 
strengthening of their capacity to manage immunizations, perform on-time diagnostics, 
treat and notify communicable diseases, as well as collect information for 
epidemiological and environmental surveillance; (B) development of water surveillance 
systems, as well as systems to monitor and control medical waste in hospitals and basic 
care units; (C) producing bi-annual epidemiological bulletins containing data and analysis 
on health surveillance in about three municipalities; and (D) the provision of support to 
Selected Municipalities for the strengthening of basic health care services under the 
Municipal Grants; and (iii) developing and implementing a quality improvement plan that 
-10- 
 
would include: (A) upgrading of plant and equipment to convert the Tabatinga hospital 
into a regional referral center with expanded range and quality of specialty, diagnostic 
and emergency services offered; (B) support the structuring of a regional referral and 
appointment center located in, or proximate to, the newly converted regional referral 
center; and (C) publishing manuals on referral guidelines, eligibility criteria and 
procedures and first-level emergency care protocols and training. 
 
(b) 
Provision of support for the strengthening of the capacity of SUSAM in 
managing the Borrower’s health sector, focusing on improving quality of spending and 
on institutional development of the SUSAM’s headquarters in the city of Manaus,
through: (i) the reengineering of and capacity building in core managerial and 
administrative processes, including planning, budget and financial management, human 
resources management, and monitoring and evaluation; (ii) the analysis of the health 
sector procurement process, including an assessment of the conditions of supplier 
markets with the purposes of proposing and later implementing a strategy for efficiency 
enhancement and cost reduction in medicine and supply management; and (iii) the 
support of change management and Project monitoring and evaluation, including: (A) 
preparation of an organizational change strategy; (B) provision of training for the 
formation of change agents within SUSAM; (C) design and implementation of an internal 
communication strategy; and (D) monitoring and evaluation of interventions under the 
Project. 
 
Part 5:
Project Management
Provision of support for Project coordination and strengthening of the PCU and 
participating agencies under the Project, through the provision of technical assistance 
(including audits), financing of incremental operating, technical staff (excluding civil 
servants and seconded staff acting as consultants) costs and provision of the necessary 
goods and equipment required under the Project. 
 
-11- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower shall transfer a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to CIAMA 
under a subsidiary agreement (the CIAMA Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CIAMA, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the 
purposes of implementing Parts 1, 2, 3, 4(a)(iii), 4(b) and 5 of the Project and setting 
forth their respective roles and responsibilities regarding the implementation of the 
Project, including disbursements under all Parts of the Project.  
 
2. 
For the purposes of carrying the out Parts 4(a)(ii) of the Project and for the 
provision of administrative support to RMO, the Borrower shall, not later than 90 days 
after the Effective Date, execute and thereafter maintain, a subsidiary agreement (the 
NGO Implementation Agreement) with CIAMA and the Implementing NGO under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, setting forth their respective roles and 
responsibilities regarding the implementation of said Part of the Project. Under said NGO 
Implementation Agreement, the Borrower shall transfer, through CIAMA, a portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan to the Implementing NGO. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 4 (a)(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
enter into an agreement (the Municipal Grant Agreement) with each 
Selected Municipality, setting forth the technical, financial, administrative and fiduciary 
aspects of Borrower and municipal participation in the implementation of, and use of 
funds for, Part 4(a)(i) of the Project, including: (i) the Selected Municipality’s obligation 
to procure the goods, works and services in accordance with the requirements of this 
Agreement and with the contracting procedures and schedule specified in the 
Procurement Plan for all goods, works and services (which shall form part of the 
Municipal Grant Agreement); (ii) the Borrower’s right to suspend disbursements, or 
cancel amounts to be disbursed, as the case may be, in the event of non compliance by 
the Selected Municipality with the obligations set forth in the Municipal Grant 
Agreement; (iii) a plan to structure and extend the Family Health Strategy in each 
Selected Municipality; (iv) a list of eligible mandatory and elective interventions to be 
provided by authorized health care providers and customized to the health necessities of 
each Selected Municipality; (v) a limited number of financial, physical and technical 
performance targets of production and coverage, including the necessary investments to 
reach said targets; and (vi) a list of the expenditures that are eligible for financing by 
proceeds of the Loan;  
 
(b) 
disburse periodically, through CIAMA, to each of the Selected 
Municipalities the Municipal Grant, but only after: (i) the Selected Municipality has 
entered into the respective Municipal Grant Agreement; and (ii) a financial management 
-12- 
 
system, satisfactory to the Bank, is in place for such Selected Municipality, all in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the 
Operational Manual; and 
 
(c) 
review annually (or any other interval acceptable to the Bank), together 
with the Bank, the performance of each of the Selected Municipalities with respect to 
financial, physical and technical performance targets (included in each of the Municipal 
Grant Agreement and explained further in the Operational Manual), and provide evidence 
showing, to the satisfaction of the Bank: (i) that these targets were achieved; and (ii) that 
the amounts disbursed by the Borrower to each Selected Municipality under the 
respective Municipal Grant Agreement, were used for goods, works and services eligible 
for financing out the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Implementation 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the 
Implementation Agreements, or any of their provisions. In case of any conflict between 
the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any of the Implementation Agreements, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall:   
 
(a) 
cause CIAMA through the CIAMA Agreement, to enter into an agreement 
(the “Productive Subproject Agreement” and the “Management Incubators Microproject 
Agreement” as the case may be), with each Beneficiary, substantially in accordance with 
the terms of the Model Subproject Agreement and including, inter alia, CIAMA’s 
obligation to make part of the Loan proceeds available to the Beneficiary in the form of 
grants for the purposes of financing the Subproject in question and the Beneficiary’s 
obligation to: (i) use the proceeds of the grant exclusively for carrying out the Subproject 
in question; (ii) have the goods, works and services for the Subproject be procured in 
compliance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (iii) 
abide by the technical and environmental practices and systems required for the 
Subprojects as set forth in the Operational Manual;  
 
(b)  
cause CIAMA through the CIAMA Agreement, to exercise its rights under 
each Productive Subproject Agreements and Management Incubators Microproject 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of CIAMA, the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that CIAMA shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce any of the Productive Subproject Agreements or the Management 
Incubators Microproject Agreements, or any of their provisions. 
 
(c) 
ensure, before disbursing funds under any of the Subprojects described in 
Part 2(b) and (c) of the Project, that the respective Productive Subproject Agreement or 
-13- 
 
the respective Management Incubators Microproject Agreement has been signed on 
behalf of the parties thereto, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and 
the terms and conditions of the Operational Manual. 
 
(d) 
ensure, before disbursing funds to the Implementing NGO under the NGO 
Implementation Agreement for activities described in Part 4 a(ii) of the Project, that the 
financial management and procurement assessment of the Implementing NGO has been 
completed with results satisfactory to the Bank, all in accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Operational Manual. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain and strengthen, until completion of the Project: (i) a unit within 
CIAMA, located in the city of Manaus (the PCU), responsible for the management, 
coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and (ii) a regional 
management office (RMO), located in the city of Tabatinga, responsible for the 
coordination and implementation of activities in remote municipalities within the Alto 
Solimões Region, as well as the facilitation of cross-sectoral coordination; and 
 
(b) 
cause such units to have and maintain a structure, responsibilities, and key 
staff with functions, experience, responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank 
as described in the Operational Manual, including: (i) for the PCU, an executive 
coordinator, three sectoral sub-coordinators, a financial sub-coordinator, an internal 
auditor and two procurement specialists; and (ii) for the RMO, regional technical 
supervisor.  
 
7. 
The Borrower, not later than 30 days after the Effective Date shall establish by 
decree, an advisory committee (the Advisory Committee) to oversee the process of 
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all Project activities and provide 
recommendations based on the review of the progress reports prepared for the Project. 
Said committee shall be chaired by a representative of SEPLAN and composed of three 
representatives of the Borrower and three representatives of the civil society, including an 
indigenous specialist. The Borrower shall maintain the Advisory Committee until the 
completion of the Project with at least one annual meeting and shall furnish to the Bank 
minutes of said meetings. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of: (a) 
the Environmental Management Plan; (b) the Indigenous Peoples Action Plan; and (c) a 
manual (the “Operational Manual”), satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia: (i) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project; (ii) the criteria for the approval, implementation and monitoring of the 
Subprojects, including a negative list of environmentally sensitive investments ineligible 
for financing under a Subproject; (iii) the criteria and procedures for the selection of the 
Implementing NGO, including financial management and procurement capacity; (iv) 
guidelines for the adoption of an integrated pest management approach in all applicable 
-14- 
 
activities to be developed under the Project; (v) environmental guidelines for 
construction, including procedures to follow in case of unexpected findings of objects 
with possible cultural or archeological value; (vi) a time-bound action plan for the proper 
management and disposal of medical waste; and (vii) the indicators to be used for Project 
monitoring and evaluation.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the provisions of the 
Environmental Management Plan, the Indigenous Peoples Action Plan or the 
“Operational Manual. In case of any conflict between any provision of the
Environmental Management Plan, the Indigenous Peoples Action Plan or the Operational 
Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
 
9. 
The Borrower, not later than 120 days after the Effective Date, together with at 
least six of the municipalities comprising the Alto Solimões Region, shall sign a protocol 
of intentions (the SAAE’s Protocol) for the establishment of SAAE, for the purposes of 
delivering and regulating water and sanitation services in the Alto Solimões Region. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. 
Project Reports.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than two months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions, for 
all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than two months after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
-15- 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, no later than six months after the Effective Date, hire the 
independent auditors referred to in Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions, under 
terms of reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III below. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement.
A. 
General.
1. 
Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services.
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consultants services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
 
-16- 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following 
additional procedures: 
 
(i) contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has 
been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such 
evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, 
to also take into account factors similar to those referred to 
in paragraph 2.52 of the Guidelines, provided, however, 
that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors 
that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to 
bid; 
 
(ii) whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid 
shall be advertised in at least one newspaper of national 
circulation in Brazil or the national official gazette; 
 
(iii) the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for 
joint-ventures (consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms 
shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case; 
 
(iv) the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for 
the contract prices; and 
 
(v)  the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior 
approval, issue any change order under a contract which 
would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity 
of goods (and related services) without any change in the 
unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale. 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Community Participation 
(d) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
-17- 
 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Single Source Selection 
 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(e) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(f) Individual Consultants 
 
(g) Service Delivery Contractors 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
-18- 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Works (except as covered 
by categories (6) and (7) 
below) 
 
7,600,000 
66% 
(2) Goods (except as covered 
by categories (6) and (7) 
below) 
 
1,100,000 
66% 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
Services
(except 
as 
covered 
by 
categories (6) and (7) below) 
 
4,500,000 
84% 
(4) Training 
    
650,000 
80% 
(5)Incremental Operating   
Costs 
 
5,500,000 
70% 
(6) Productive Subprojects and 
Management Incubators 
Microprojects 
 
2,600,000 
100% 
(7) Municipal Grants 
    
1,300,000 
100% 
(8) Front-end Fee 
     
 61,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.04 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(9) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
(10) Unallocated 
        
939,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
  
24,250,000 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(a) 
the term “training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred in connection with the carrying out of training, seminars, and 
workshops under the Project, including the reasonable travel cost and per-diem of the 
trainers and trainees, training materials and scholarships (tuition only); and 
 
(b) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the following management 
and supervision costs, to the extent they would not have been incurred absent the Project: 
(i) costs for utilities, maintenance and consumable office supplies, printing services, 
communication services, and incidental costs associated with the Project; (ii) all costs 
related to audits; (iii) logistics for workshops; (iv) technical staff (excluding civil servants 
and seconded staff acting as consultants); and (v) travel expenses (travel tickets and per 
diem). 
 
-19- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
under categories (1) through (6) set forth in the table in Part A of the previous section, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,850,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after April 12, 2007, but not earlier than 12 months from 
the date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under the Project. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
 
-20- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 1 and December 1 
 
Beginning June 1, 2013  
 
through June 1, 2024 
4.17% 
 
On December 1, 2024 
4.09% 
 
-21- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Advisory Committee” means a committee to be established by the Borrower as 
set forth in paragraph 7 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
Advisory Committee’s Legislation means the Borrower’s decree to be adopted for 
the establishment of the Advisory Committee. 
3. 
“Alto Solimões Region” means the region within the Borrower’s territory 
comprising the municipalities of Atalaia do Norte, Benjamin Constant, Tabatinga, 
Amaturá , São Paulo de Olivença, Santo Antônio do Içá, Tonantins, Fonte Boa, 
and Jutaí. 
4. 
“Beneficiaries” means: (a) in the case of a Productive Subproject: a group formed 
by rural producers, wood workers, fish breeders, fisherman and small-scale 
entrepreneurs of the wood, fishery and non-timber product productive chains, 
organized in associations, cooperatives, unions or any other form of incorporation 
with a legal personality (pessoa jurídica), duly established in the Guarantor’s 
territory in accordance with the applicable laws; and (b) in the case of a 
Management Incubators Microproject: local residents and communities, 
particularly but not only those in which indigenous communities are present. 
5. 
“CIAMA” means Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Estado do Amazonas, the 
Borrower’s Development Corporation, responsible for promoting social, 
economic, technological, industrial and environmental development in the 
Borrower’s territory, established pursuant to Borrower’s Decree No. 2.326 of 
May 8, 1995. 
6. 
“CIAMA Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
8. 
“COSAMA” means Companhia de Saneamento do Amazonas, the Borrower’s 
sanitation company, established pursuant to Borrower’s Decree No. 892 of 
November 13, 1969. 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan prepared by the Borrower, 
dated January 22, 2007, published and available to the public on 
www.seplan.am.gov.br or www.ciama.am.gov.br, which sets out the environmental 
protection measures in respect of the Project, including: (i) a negative list of 
environmentally sensitive investments ineligible for Project financing, emphasizing 
those potentially leading to deforestation; (ii) environmental screening checklist 
-22- 
 
for Project interventions; and (iii) environmental supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation procedures for the Project. 
 
10. 
“Family Health Strategy” means a strategy for organizing and providing primary 
health care consisting of the following features: (i) continuous, integrated health 
services provided to an enrolled population in a fixed geographical area; (ii) focus 
on the family; (iii) identification of risk factors that can impact the family's health; 
(iv) active outreach by professionals and paraprofessionals; (v) emphasis on 
preventive care; and (vi)  community-based information and education regarding 
health. 
 
11. 
“FVS” means Fundação de Vigilância em Saúde, the foundation for health 
surveillance, established pursuant to Borrower’s Decree No. 2895 of June 3, 
2004. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
13. 
“2007 General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 as amended 
through October 17, 2007. 
 
14. 
“Implementation Agreement” means collectively the CIAMA Agreement, the 
NGO Implementation Agreement or any of the Municipal Grant Agreements. 
 
15. 
“Implementation Entity” means collectively CIAMA, the Implementing NGO or 
any of the Selected Municipalities. 
 
16. 
“Implementing NGO” means a non-profit civil organization acceptable to the 
Bank and incorporated in accordance with the legal frameworks of the Borrower 
and the Guarantor which has met the selection criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual and which has been selected accordingly by the Borrower to implement 
Parts 4(a)(ii) of the Project. 
 
17. 
“Indigenous Peoples Development Plan” means the plan prepared by the Borrower, 
dated January 22, 2007, published and available to the public on 
www.seplan.am.gov.br or www.ciama.am.gov.br, which sets out the measures to be 
taken to ensure that indigenous peoples will not be harmed by the Project and to 
ensure their participation and involvement in the implementation and monitoring of 
the Project as it affects them. 
 
18. 
“Law 11.107” means the Borrower’s consortia law No. 11.107 (Normas gerais de 
contratação de consórcios públicos), published in the Guarantor’s official gazette 
on April 6, 2005. 
 
-23- 
 
19. 
“Management Incubators Microproject” means a subproject consisting of a set of 
activities designed to nurture small-scale business, including management 
assistance, access to financing, organizational and technical support services, and 
access to equipment and space. 
 
20. 
“Management Incubators Microproject Agreements” means any of the agreements 
(with respect to Management Incubators Microprojects) referred to in paragraph 
5(a) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
21. 
“Model Subproject Agreement” means the model agreements for Productive 
Subprojects and Management Incubators Microprojects to be included in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
22. 
“Municipal Grant” means a financial transfer from the Borrower to the Selected 
Municipality, on a periodic basis, for the payment of goods, works and services 
required for the implementation of Part 4(a)(i) of the Project. 
 
23. 
“Municipal Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
paragraph 3(a) of Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement to be executed among 
the Borrower, CIAMA and Selected Municipalities. 
 
24. 
“NGO Implementing Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 2 
of Section I of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 8(c) of Section I 
to Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Participating Secretariats” means collectively the Borrower’s: (i) SEPLAN; (ii) 
Secretariat for Agriculture, Ranching, Fishing and Integrated Rural Development 
(Secretaria de Estado da Produção Rural); (iii) Secretariat of Sustainable 
Development (Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente e Desenvolvimento 
Sustentável); (iv) Secretariat of Infrastructure (Secretaria de Estado da Infra-
Estrutura); and (v) SUSAM. 
 
27. 
“PCU” means the Project implementation unit to be created within CIAMA and 
referred to in paragraph 6(a)(i) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
29. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 17, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
-24- 
 
30. 
“Productive Subprojects” means a subproject consisting of a set of activities 
designed to contribute to the economic efficiency of those Producers Associations 
with a high potential of market accessibility and quality of their products in the 
Alto Solimões Region. 
 
31. 
“Productive Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements (with respect to 
Productive Subprojects), referred to in paragraph 5(a) of Section I to Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
 
32. 
“Program” means the program designed to support strengthening of basic services 
and sustainable use of natural resources in the Alto Solimões Region and set forth 
or referred to in the letter dated August 17, 2007 from the Borrower to the Bank. 
 
33. 
“RMO” means the regional management office referred to in paragraph 6(a)(ii) of 
Section I of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
 
34. 
“SAAE” means Serviço Autônomo de Água e Esgoto, the autonomous water and 
sanitation service to be created under Part 3(b) of the Project and in accordance 
with the provisions of Law 11.107, for the purposes of providing and regulating 
water and sanitation services in the Alto Solimões Region. 
 
35. 
“SAAE’s Protocol” means the Borrower’s protocol of intention to be signed for 
the establishment of SAAE as set forth in paragraph 9 of Section I of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
36. 
“Selected Municipalities” means municipalities located in Alto Solimões region 
that are beneficiaries of Municipal Grants and possess the following 
characteristics: (i) at least 40% of the population is urban; (ii) travel distance 
between the municipal capital and the regional "pole" municipality (Tabatinga) is 
less than one hour; and (iii) has launched the Family Health Program.    
 
37. 
“SEPLAN” means Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Desenvolvimento 
Econômico, the Borrower’s planning secretariat. 
 
38. 
“Subprojects” means collectively the Productive Subprojects and the Management 
Incubators Microprojects. 
 
39. 
“SUSAM” means Secretaria de Estado da Saúde, the Borrower’s health 
secretariat. 
 
