CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7565-PK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Electricity Distribution and Transmission Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 14, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 14, 2008, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
Whereas the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith 
(“Financing Agreement”) between the Borrower and the International Development 
Association (“Association”), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance as 
follows: (1) an aggregate principal amount equal to eighteen million seven hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,700,000) (“Portion A of the Credit”); and 
(2) thirty-two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 32,300,000) 
(“Portion B of the Credit”) (collectively referred to as “Financing”) 
 
Whereas the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of Financing and the Loan will be disbursed in the following order on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project: first proceeds of Portion B of the Credit, followed 
by proceeds of Portion A of the Credit, and finally proceeds of the Loan. 
 
Now therefore, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred seventy three million 
six hundred thousand United States dollars (USD173,600,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 2 -
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 3 -
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall carry out its Respective Parts of the 
Project through PEPCO, and cause the Project Implementing Entities to carry out 
their Respective Parts of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and the respective Project Implementing 
Entities’ Project Agreements. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that the 
respective Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation, the NEPRA Act and/or the 
NEPRA SRO have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of any of the Project 
Implementing Entities to perform any of its obligations under its respective 
Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that 
any event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities; and 
 
(b) 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement 
shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entities and are legally binding upon the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entities in accordance with their terms. 
 
- 4 -
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the Borrower’s Economic 
Affairs Division, acting individually. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Phone:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-51-9203815  
92-51-9218976 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Junaid Iqbal Ch. 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
- 5 -
By 
/s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to: (i) strengthen the 
capacity of the distribution and transmission networks in Selected Areas to meet the 
increasing electricity demand more efficiently and with better reliability and quality; and 
(ii) strengthen the institutional capacity of Distribution Companies and support priority 
areas of the power sector reform. 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part A: Investment in Distribution Networks
1. 
Carrying out of IESCO’s investment program aimed at improving its  
sub-transmission network and reducing energy loss through: (i) the construction, 
augmentation, 
and/or 
conversion 
of 
approximately 
nineteen 
(19)  
sub-transmission grid stations, including extension of transformer and line bays 
in approximately six (6) grid stations; (ii) the construction of approximately five 
hundred fifty kilometers (550 km) of secondary transmission lines; (iii) the 
replacement of two (2) existing secondary transmission lines (approximately  
44 km); and (iv) the strengthening of the distribution network through, inter alia,
the replacement of D-fuse links and fitting, loose joints in feeders, aged energy 
meters, PG connectors, and faulty earthing, and the installation of sectionalizers 
and capacitor banks. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of LESCO’s investment program aimed at improving its sub-
transmission network through: (i) the construction, augmentation and/or 
conversion of approximately twenty (20) sub-transmission grid stations, 
including extension of transformer and line bays in approximately five (5) grid 
stations; and (ii) the construction of approximately fifty kilometers (50 km) of 
secondary transmission lines. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of MEPCO’s investment program aimed at improving its sub-
transmission network and reducing energy loss through: (i) the construction, 
augmentation, extension and/or conversion of approximately twenty one (21) 
sub-transmission grid stations; (ii) the construction of approximately two 
hundred kilometers (200 km) of secondary transmission lines; and (iii) the 
strengthening of the distribution network through, inter alia, the refurbishment of 
feeders, the installation of capacitator banks, the augmentation/installation of 
distribution transformers and the replacement of faulty energy meters. 
 
4. 
Carrying out of HESCO’s investment program aimed at improving the sub-
transmission network and reducing energy loss, through: (i) the construction, 
- 7 -
augmentation, extension and/or conversion of approximately thirteen (13) sub-
transmission grid stations; (ii) construction of approximately one hundred twenty 
kilometers (120 km) of secondary transmission lines; and (iii) the strengthening 
of the distribution network through, inter alia, the installation of approximately 
four hundred and forty kilometers (440 km) of aerial bunch cable and meters on 
transformers, the bifurcation/rehabilitation of feeders, and the replacement of 
consumer meters. 
 
Part B: Investment in Transmission Networks
Carrying out NTDC’s investment program, through the construction of: (i) a  
220 kV grid station at Kassowal and the acquisition of associated equipment; (ii) 
ten (10) 132 kV and 220 kV line bays and four 132 kV and 220 kV transformer 
bays; and (iii) two (2) twin bundle double circuit transmission lines connecting 
the Kassowal grid station to the transmission grid. 
 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MoW&P, PEPCO, NTDC and the 
Distribution Companies to implement the Project and sectoral investment 
program and reforms, through: (i) the acquisition of information and technology 
systems; (ii) the carrying out of specialized studies; (iii) the provision of in-
country and overseas training and the revamping of in-house training; (iv) the 
provision of technical support for Project implementation including office 
automation, assistance with conceptual and engineering designs, contract 
management, 
procurement 
and 
legal 
aspects, 
financial 
management, 
environmental and social analysis; and (v) improving corporate governance of 
the Distribution Companies. 
 
Part D: Energy Efficiency
Developing and implementing an energy efficiency program involving, inter 
alia: (i) the replacement of incandescent bulbs with compact fluorescent lamps at 
customer premises; (ii) the provision of low-tension capacitors to selected 
industrial and tube-well customers; and (iii) the provision of prepaid metering, 
automatic meter reading (AMR) and remote metering system (RMS) for various 
categories of selected residential and commercial customers.  
 
- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the responsibility for the overall oversight and 
coordination of the Project in PEPCO. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause PEPCO to: 
 
(a) 
maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, a project 
implementation unit, which unit shall be responsible for the day-to-day 
technical, financial and procurement management and coordination of 
the Borrower’s Respective Parts of the Project; such unit to be provided 
with sufficient resources under the direction of a qualified and 
experienced manager, acceptable to the Bank, and assisted by staff in 
adequate numbers, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(b) 
hire, by no later than December 31, 2008, and thereafter retain 
throughout the project implementation, the services of a qualified and 
internationally experienced procurement advisor, satisfactory to the 
Bank, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, in order to: (i) 
strengthen the capacity of PEPCO’s procurement monitoring cell; (ii) 
participate in PEPCO’s and the Project Implementing Entities’ bid 
evaluation meetings, and assist these entities with the preparation of the 
bid evaluation reports; (iii) submit independent reports to PEPCO and the 
Bank on procurement activities carried out by the Project Implementing 
Entities; (iv) participate in the inspection of the delivery of goods and 
works so procured; and (v) provide assistance to Project Implementing 
Entities for the strengthening of their procurement capacity (including 
the preparation of comprehensive procurement policies and guidelines); 
and 
 
(c) 
hire, on an annual basis, independent external auditors satisfactory to the 
Bank, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible 
for carrying out PEPCO’s annual audit and the audits of the PEPCO’s 
Project accounts, interim un-audited financial reports and Financial 
Statements. The audit reports shall include the independent auditor’s 
opinion on PEPCO’s compliance with the financial covenants and 
reports undertaken by the Borrower as set forth in this Agreement. 
 
- 9 -
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entities’ Respective 
Parts of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the Project Implementing Entities under individual subsidiary 
agreements between the Borrower and each of the Project Implementing Entities, 
under terms and conditions acceptable by the Bank (collectively the Subsidiary 
Agreements), which shall include the following:  
 
(a) 
The payment by the Project Implementing Entities to the Borrower of 
interest charges on the principal amounts withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time under the respective Subsidiary Agreement at a rate 
not to exceed seventeen percent (17%) per annum; and 
 
(b) 
A minimum amortization period of fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a 
minimum two (2) years grace period, and no penalty for early 
repayments and/or cancellations;  
 
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entities’ undertaking to operate with diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with internationally acceptable 
administrative, technical, financial and economic managerial practices 
and standards, including a proper and transparent accounting system and 
regular financial audits in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting and auditing standards;  
 
(d) 
The Borrower’s and Project Implementing Entities’ understandings and 
arrangements for the flow of funds (including disbursement protocols, 
supporting evidence and reporting requirements therefor); and 
 
(e) 
The Borrower’s right to suspend or terminate the respective Subsidiary 
Agreement, and/or accelerate the recovery of any outstanding amounts 
withdrawn thereunder, upon: (A) the respective Project Implementing 
Entity’s failure to perform any of its obligations under its Subsidiary 
Agreement and/or Project Agreement; or (B) the Bank’s exercising any 
of the remedies under Article VII of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreements or any of its provisions. 
- 10 -
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall carry out and/or cause PEPCO and the Project Implementing 
Entities to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Procurement Action Plan. 
 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
cause the Project Implementing Entities to carry out their Respective 
Parts of the Project with due regard to health-safety, social, cultural and 
environmental principles, practices and standards as reflected in their 
respective Environmental and Social Assessments, Environmental and 
Social Management Plans, and/or Resettlement Action Plans, as the case 
may be; and 
 
(b) 
cause the Project Implementing Entities to update their respective 
Environmental 
Social 
Assessments, 
Environmental 
and 
Social 
Management Plans, and/or Resettlement Action Plans in accordance with 
the procedures and criteria set forth in their respective Environmental 
and Social Guidelines. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause the Project Implementing Entities to 
ensure, that any civil works that require land takings and the resettlement of 
Displaced Persons shall not be initiated until adequate monetary compensations 
have been paid and/or the appropriate resettlement of all such Displaced Persons 
has taken place, in accordance with their respective Resettlement Action Plans 
and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2011. 
 
- 11 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare, and furnish, and/or cause the Project Implementing Entities to prepare 
and furnish, to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements, and cause the Project 
Implementing Entities to have their respective Financial Statements, audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
- 12 -
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plans shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding procedures* 
(b) Shopping 
*National Competitive Bidding shall be subject to the following additional 
provisions: 
 
i. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for 
the submission of bids;  
 
ii. 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee;  
 
iii. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and price preference 
as per the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to national bidders in the 
bidding process;  
 
iv. 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;  
 
v. 
Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;  
 
vi. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;  
 
vii. 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank;  
 
viii. 
Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained;  
 
ix. 
Bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit 
prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates;  
 
x. 
Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of prior negotiated rates;  
 
xi. 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; 
and  
 
- 13 -
xii. 
Post-bidding price negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plans 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Single Source Selection 
(c) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plans shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to 
the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by 
the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
- 14 -
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
 
Amount of 
Portion  A of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
 
Amount of 
Portion B of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of 
taxes, except for 
Categories (1)(b) 
and (2)(b)) 
(1) Goods, works, 
consultants’ 
services, training 
and workshops for:   
 
(a) IESCO under 
Parts A.1 and C 
of the Project 
 
(b) LESCO under 
Parts A.2  and C 
of the Project 
 
(c) MEPCO under 
Parts A.3  and C 
of the Project 
 
(d) HESCO under 
Parts A.4  and C 
of the Project 
 
(e) NTDC under 
Parts B and C of 
the Project 
 
(f) MoW&P through 
PEPCO under 
Part C of the 
Project 
 
58,496,000 
 
60,290,000 
 
34,710,000 
 
0
19,670,000 
 
0
0
0
9,500,000 
 
0
0
0
0
0
4,360,000 
 
25,670,000 
 
0
2,270,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods under Part D 
of the Project for: 
 
(a) IESCO  
 
(b) LESCO 
 
(c) MEPCO 
 
(d) HESCO 
 
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
100% 
- 15 -
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
 
Amount of 
Portion  A of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
 
Amount of 
Portion B of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of 
taxes, except for 
Categories (1)(b) 
and (2)(b)) 
(3) Front-end Fee 
434,000 
0 
0 
 Amount payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of 
this Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) 
of the General 
Conditions 
 
(4) Premia for Interest 
Rates Caps and 
Interest Rate Collars 
0
0
0
Amount payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of 
this Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of 
the General 
Conditions 
 
(5) Unallocated  
0 
9,200,000 
0 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
173,600,000 
18,700,000 
32,300,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
twenty three million nine hundred thousand United States Dollars 
(USD23,900,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but 
on or after April 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under  
Categories (1)(a) through (e), subject to the following ceilings per 
Category: 
 
(i) 
up to USD6,000,000 for Category 1(a); 
 
(ii) 
Up to USD6,000,000 for Category 1(b); 
- 16 -
(iii) 
Up to USD5,600,000 equivalent for Category 1(c); 
 
(iv) 
Up to USD4,300,000 equivalent for Category 1(d); and 
 
(v) 
Up to USD2,000,000 for Category 1(e). 
 
(b) 
under Category (1)(c) until, and unless, the Bank has received 
satisfactory evidence that MEPCO has revised the terms of reference of 
its procurement consultant, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, as 
provided for in paragraph 4 of Section I.A of the Schedule to MEPCO’s 
Project Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Borrower undertakes to: 
 
(a) 
cause the Project Implementing Entities to file tariff petitions with 
NEPRA requesting NEPRA’s revision and update of the tariffs structure 
applicable to their respective services whenever the existing tariffs no 
longer meet the standards set forth in Part III (Section 17) of the NEPRA 
SRO; and 
 
(b) 
publish in the Official Gazette or file a request for review of any 
regulatory order, determination and/or decisions passed by NEPRA 
(including the revisions and updates of the applicable tariff structures 
requested in accordance with sub-paragraph (a) above), no later than 
fifteen (15) days as of NEPRA’s final intimation pursuant to  
sub-section (4) of Section 31 of the NEPRA Act. 
 
2. 
Without limitation to the obligations set forth in Section 5.03 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower undertakes to promptly allocate and transfer on a 
monthly basis to the Project Implementing Entities (and not later than the 25th 
day of each month), in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedures and 
in terms satisfactory to the Bank, any and all subsidies required to compensate 
the difference between the tariffs determined by NEPRA and the tariffs 
effectively notified by the Borrower. 
 
3. 
In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Project 
Implementing Entities to: 
 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank for review, comments 
and concurrence, their respective draft project description documents 
- 17 -
detailing the proposed activities under Part D of the Project, which detail 
shall include: (i) an assessment of the technical, economic and financial 
justification/viability of the activities proposed; (ii) implementation plan; 
(iii) the environmental and social assessment of such activities, whenever 
necessary, and the mitigation measures therefor; and (iv) the proposed 
budget and associated procurement plan (including any arrangements for 
supplementing/strengthening the procurement capacity);  
 
(b) 
finalize such project description documents based on the drafts as 
discussed with, and agreed by, the Borrower and the Bank; and  
 
(c) 
thereafter, carry out Project activities under Part D of the Project in 
accordance with their respective project description documents, as so 
approved. 
- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15and September15  
 
Beginning September 15, 2013  
 
through March 15, 2038 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
- 19 -
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 20 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic an social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) a relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated park and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons.  
 
5. 
“Distribution Companies” means collectively HESCO, IESCO, LESCO, and 
MEPCO, and any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Environmental and Social Assessments” means the assessments carried out by 
the Project Implementing Entities in form and substance, and with terms of 
reference, satisfactory to the Bank, dated January 21, 2008, (HESCO), October 
31, 2006, (IESCO), March 8, 2007, (LESCO), January 24, 2007, (MEPCO), and 
September 3, 2007, (NTDC), respectively for purpose of appraising and 
evaluating 
the 
Project’s 
potential 
prospective 
positive 
and 
negative 
environmental impacts on the Selected Areas. The term “Environmental and 
Social Assessment” means each such assessment, individually. 
 
7. 
“Environmental and Social Guidelines” means the guidelines incorporated in the 
respective Environmental and Social Assessment of each Project Implementing 
Entity, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which set forth the 
principles, procedures and environmental standards and criteria to be applied by 
the Project Implementing Entities in preparing the regular updates of their 
respective Environmental and Social Assessment and Environmental and Social 
Management Plans, as provided in the respective Project Agreements, in order to 
comprise/cover the work plans for subsequent years of Project implementation.  
 
- 21 -
8. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plans” means, collectively, the plans, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, incorporated in the respective 
Environmental and Social Assessment of each Project Implementing Entity, 
providing for appropriate evaluation, monitoring, consultation, mitigation and 
grievance redressal mechanisms, and the institutional responsibilities and 
procedures, required to offset or eliminate any potentially adverse environmental 
impact of the Project (including, without limitation, any impact on physical 
cultural resources and cultural heritage sites), as said plans may be amended from 
time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. The term “Environmental 
and Social Management Plan” means each such plan, individually. 
 
9. 
“Financial Management Manual” means PEPCO’s accounting systems manual, 
in three volumes, filed with the Bank, adopted and applied by PEPCO and the 
Project Implementing Entities to regulate their financial protocols and 
procedures, including PEPCO’s and the Project Implementing Entities’: (i) charts 
of accounts and guidelines; (ii) payroll procedures; (iii) assets coding scheme, 
and applicable policies and procedures; (iv) construction projects accounting; (v) 
disbursement; (vi) purchasing; (vii) budgeting; and (viii) general accounting 
disbursement; which manual shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated, or in 
any way waived, whether in whole or in part, without the prior concurrence of 
the Bank, if in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment, suspension, abrogation 
or waiver might materially affect the Project Implementing Entities’ carrying out 
of the Project. 
 
10. 
“Financing Agreement” means the Financing Agreement for the Project between 
Borrower and the International Development Association, dated the same date as 
Loan Agreement, as such financing agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and “Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.  
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
12. 
“HESCO” means the Hyderabad Electric Supply Company, a power utility 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and NEPRA’s license 05/DL/2002, and 
registered with the Joint Registrar of Companies under certificate of 
incorporation No. L-09496, dated April 23, 1998. 
 
13. 
“IESCO” means the Islamabad Electric Supply Company, a power utility 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and NEPRA’s license 01/DL/2001, and 
registered with the Joint Registrar of Companies under certificate of 
incorporation No. L-09499 dated April 25, 1998. 
- 22 -
14. 
“Kassowal” means the locality of Kassowal in the Borrower’s Province of 
Punjab. 
 
15. 
“LESCO” means the Lahore Electric Supply Company, a power utility 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and NEPRA’s license 03/DL/2002, and 
registered with the Joint Registrar of Companies under certificate of 
incorporation No. L-09415 dated February 18, 1998. 
 
16. 
“MEPCO” means the Multan Electric Power Company, a power utility 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and NEPRA’s license 06/DL/2002, and 
registered with the Joint Registrar of Companies under certificate of 
incorporation No. L-09522, dated May 14, 1998. 
 
17. 
“MoW&P” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water and Power, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“NEPRA” means the Borrower’s National Electric Power Regulatory Authority, 
an independent regulatory agency established and existing under the NEPRA Act 
for purposes of regulating the Borrower’s electric power sector; and/or any 
successor thereto. 
 
19. 
“NEPRA Act” means the Borrower’s Act XL of 1997, for the Regulation of 
Generation, Transmission and Distribution of Electric Power Act. 
 
20. 
“NEPRA SRO” means NEPRA’s Statutory Notification (SRO) 1399 (I)/98, dated 
December 23, 1998, setting forth NEPRA’s tariff standards and procedural rules, 
issued by NEPRA pursuant to Section 46 of the NEPRA Act.   
 
21. 
“NTDC” means the National Transmission and Dispatch Company Ltd., an 
electricity transmission and dispatch utility established and operating under 
Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) of the Islamic Republic of 
Pakistan and NEPRA’s license No. TL/01/2002, and registered with the Joint 
Registrar of Companies under certificate of incorporation No. L-09689, dated 
November 6, 1998. 
 
22. 
“PEPCO” means Pakistan Electric Power Company (Pvt) Limited, a company 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and registered with the Joint Registrar of 
Companies under certificate of incorporation No. 0039090, dated May 13, 1998. 
 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
- 23 -
24. 
“Procurement Action Plan” means the plan dated February 21, 2008, prepared by 
the Borrower and to be implemented by the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entities, aimed at: (i) overcoming the institutional obstacles and 
commercial practices hindering the open and transparent competition of bidders; 
(ii) enhancing the scrutiny of bidding processes through independent monitoring 
of bid preparation, issuance and evaluation; (iii) developing a sanctions regime; 
and (iv) carrying out a communications campaign to publicize and enforce the 
Borrower’s, PEPCO’s, and the Project Implementing Entities’ resolve to combat 
non-competitive behavior; as such plan may be amended from time to time with 
the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
25. 
“Procurement Plans” means the Borrower’s and the Project Implementing 
Entities’ respective procurement plans for the Project, dated April 25, 2008 
(NTDC, IESCO, LESCO, MEPCO, and HESCO), and referred to in paragraph 
1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
26. 
“Program” means the policy program aimed at developing the Borrower’s power 
sector, as set forth or referred to in the letter dated November 26, 2007 from the 
Joint Secretary (Power), MoWP, addressed to the Bank on behalf the Borrower. 
 
27. 
“Project Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements between the Bank and 
the Project Implementing Entities, of the same date as this Agreement, for 
purposes of carrying out the Project Implementing Entities’ Respective Parts of 
the Project, as such agreements may be amended from time to time. “Project 
Agreements” includes all appendixes, schedules, side-letters and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreements. 
 
28. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means, individually, each of the Distribution 
Companies as well as NTDC and/or the successors thereof; and the term “Project 
Implementing Entities” means collectively all such companies and/or their 
successors. 
 
29. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means, in respect of: 
 
(a) 
HESCO: HESCO’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, 
dated April 23, 1998; 
 
(b) 
IESCO: IESCO’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, 
dated April 25, 1998; 
 
(c) 
LESCO: LESCO’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, 
dated February 18, 1998; 
 
- 24 -
(d) 
MEPCO: MEPCO’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, 
dated May 14, 1998; 
 
(e) 
NTDC: NTDC’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, 
dated November 6, 1998; 
 
30. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively the action plans, incorporated in 
the respective Environmental and Social Assessment of each Project 
Implementing Entity, providing for the compensation to Displaced Persons and 
comprising of, inter alia:
(i) an entitlement framework setting forth 
compensation for loss of land, crops, trees and means of livelihood as applicable; 
(ii) institutional and implementation arrangements; (iii) consultation and 
grievance redressal mechanisms; and (iv) monitoring and documentation 
procedures. The term “Resettlement Action Plan” means each such plan, 
individually. 
 
31. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means, in respect of: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower: the activities under Part C of the Project; 
 
(b) 
HESCO: Part A.4 and HESCO-related activities under Part C 
and D of the Project; 
 
(c) 
IESCO: Part A.1 and IESCO-related activities under Part C and 
D of the Project; 
 
(d) 
LESCO: Part A.2 and LESCO-related activities under Part C and 
D of the Project; 
 
(e) 
MEPCO: Part A.3 and MEPCO-related activities under Part C 
and D of the Project; and  
 
(f) 
NTDC: Parts B and NTDC-related activities under Part C of the 
Project.  
 
32. 
“Selected Areas” means the Borrower’s geographical areas serviced by the 
Distribution Companies and NTDC. 
 
33. 
“Standard Operating Procedures” means the Standard Operating Procedures with 
Timelines and Responsibilities for Sale and Purchase of Electricity, approved and 
adopted by MoW&P on December 19, 2007. 
 
34. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means each of the individual agreements referred to in 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower 
shall make the proceeds of the Loan and Financing available to a Project 
- 25 -
Implementing Entity; and the term “Subsidiary Agreements” means all such 
agreements, collectively.  
 
35. 
“WAPDA” means the Borrower’s Water and Power Development Authority, 
established and existing under the Water and Power Development Authority Act 
(1958) as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto. 
 
