CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7417-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Land Administration II Project  
in support of the Second Phase of the Land Administration Program) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 26, 2008 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7417-GU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated February 26, 2008, between the REPUBLIC OF 
GUATEMALA 
(the 
“Borrower”) 
and 
the 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty-two million three hundred 
thousand Dollars ($62,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (the “Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
-3- 
 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal sixty-two million three hundred thousand Dollars ($62,300,000) 
shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
-4- 
 
ARTICLE III—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by 
the RIC in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The RIC shall have failed, in the opinion of the Bank, to perform any of 
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
(b) 
The RIC Law has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived, in whole in part (including, inter alia, as a result of any 
legislative or judicial process based on a claim of unconstitutionality 
(recurso de inconstitucionalidad) or other legal claim), so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or the RIC to 
perform any of the obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary 
Agreement, respectively. 
(c) 
The Procurement Law has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to render its Article 1 ineffective, in the opinion 
of the Bank, and no provision analogous to such Article 1 has been 
adopted to replace said provision. 
(d) 
The Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the RIC to perform 
its obligations as contemplated under the provisions of this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs. 
-5- 
 
(b) 
The event in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and 
is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the RIC. 
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been adopted by the RIC. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the RIC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
RIC in accordance with its terms. 
(b) 
The Operational Manual has been duly adopted by the RIC in accordance 
with the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower, including, inter 
alia, the RIC Law. 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on June 16, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Public Finance.  In addition to 
the Borrower’s Representative, either of the Vice-Ministers of Finance may sign the letter 
providing the Bank with the names and specimen signatures of the officials authorized to 
sign the applications for withdrawals of proceeds of this Loan described in Section 2.03 
of the General Conditions. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
8 Av. 20-87, Zona 1 
Ciudad de Guatemala, Guatemala 
 
Facsimile: 
-6- 
 
+011 (502) 2248-5084 
-7- 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-8- 
 
AGREED at the City of Guatemala, Guatemala, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By /s/ Juan Alberto Fuentes Knight 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to foster the process of achieving land tenure 
security in the Project Area through the provision of efficient and accessible cadastral and 
land administration services. 
 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part 1: 
Cadastral and Land Regularization Processes
1. 
Carrying out of diagnostics and other similar preparatory activities prior to 
commencing the cadastral fieldwork described in Part 1.3 of the Project, 
including, inter alia, the following: (a) registral diagnostics in the RGP; 
(b) participatory socioeconomic diagnostics; (c) consultations and workshops 
with persons located in the Project Area; (d) preparation of a tract index that 
includes information on real property rights and conveyances; and (e) 
consolidation of the geodesic network. 
2. 
Design and carrying out of a social communication strategy for the Project that 
informs stakeholders of the cadastral process that will be implemented in the 
Project Area, including, inter alia, the following: (a) preparation and carrying out 
of a communication campaign; and (b) training of local institutions and 
organizations. 
3. 
Carrying out of cadastral fieldwork in the Project Area consisting of the 
following: (a) parcel-based field surveys in each of the Cadastral Zones, 
including, inter alia, the delimitation of administrative boundaries, Protected 
Areas and Proposed Protected Areas, public areas and territorial reserves, and 
cultural and archaeological areas requiring special protection; (b) training of 
cadastral brigades; (c) assistance during the cadastral field survey to persons 
located in the Project Area; (d) provision of operational support to SAA in 
providing technical and legal assistance for alternative conflict resolution to 
Beneficiaries in the Project Area during the survey process; (e) provision of 
cadastral technical services and operational support to the IGN, CONAP, IDAEH 
and OCRET in connection with the delimitation of administrative boundaries, 
Protected Areas and Proposed Protected Areas, cultural and archeological sites, 
and territorial reserves; and (f) the physical demarcation of Protected Areas and 
Proposed Protected Areas and cultural and archaeological sites delimited in the 
cadastral survey. 
4. 
Carrying out technical and legal analyses of the data collected during the 
cadastral surveys consisting of the following: (a) comparisons of the existing 
-10- 
 
sources of land registry information to the data collected during the cadastral 
field surveys; and (b) legal analysis and investigation of the nature and status of 
the data collected during the cadastral field surveys in order to determine whether 
the parcels are regular or irregular. 
5. 
Carrying out: (a) annotations in the property registry maintained by the RGP of 
the regular or irregular status of parcels surveyed and analyzed under Parts 1.3 
and 1.4 of the Project; and (b) any corresponding notifications to affected 
stakeholders. 
6. 
Carrying out the regularization of those irregular parcels satisfying the 
requirements for “special titling” (titulación especial) under Chapter II of Title 
VII of the RIC Law. 
7. 
Carrying out: (a) the declaration and certification of communal lands (tierras 
comunales) identified in the Project Areas during the cadastral survey; and (b) 
where applicable, the inscription of such certified communal lands in the 
property registry maintained by the RGP in accordance with Article 65 of the 
RIC Law. 
8. 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and training by the RIC to 
FONTIERRAS to support its regularization of national lands identified as part of 
the cadastral survey in the Project Areas. 
Part 2: 
Maintenance of Cadastral Information and Municipal Services
1. 
Establishment of approximately eight Municipal Cluster Offices in the Cadastral 
Zones for the purpose of supporting: (a) the institutional tasks of the RIC; and (b) 
the supervision of the processes of establishing and maintaining the cadastre. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to the RIC for the following purposes: (a) the 
development of norms and procedures for cadastral maintenance; (b) the creation 
of a technological-operational platform for cadastral maintenance that includes, 
inter alia, the ability to exchange cadastral and property information with 
municipalities, private surveyors, and notaries; (c) the implementation of the 
platform described in the foregoing clause (b); and (d) the provision of training 
on cadastral maintenance by the RIC to municipalities, private surveyors, and 
notaries. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance and training by the RIC to certain 
Municipalities identified in the Operational Manual for the following purposes: 
(a) the formulation by such Municipality of land use plans; and (b) the 
management of cadastral information at the municipal level by such 
Municipality. 
-11- 
 
Part 3: 
Legal Reforms and Institutional Strengthening for Land Administration
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to the RIC for the following 
purposes: (a) the preparation of the Specific Regulation on Communal Lands; 
and (b) the preparation of the Draft Land Regularization Law, including, inter 
alia, the development and piloting of methodologies to regularize parcels that 
have been designated as irregular under the cadastral process, the appropriate 
participatory procedures in such regularizations, and conflict resolution 
mechanisms. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to the RIC for the training of the 
staff and employees of the RIC, Participating Agencies, Municipalities, local, 
communal and municipal organizations, and private companies that participate in 
the cadastral process. 
3. 
Strengthening the coordination mechanisms between the RGP and RIC for 
purposes of the Project and to improve the functioning of the property registry 
and cadastre systems through the following activities: (a) the provision of 
technical assistance to the RGP and the RIC for the development of a 
technological platform to facilitate communication and information exchange 
between the RGP and the RIC; (b) provision of equipment for the installation of 
the platform described in the foregoing clause (a) in the central and regional 
offices of the RGP and the RIC; (c) carrying out the large-scale collection of 
property registry data in the RGP; and (d) provision of training to staff of the 
RGP and the RIC on the use of the platform described in foregoing clause (a). 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to the RGP to support the 
modernization of the RGP through the development of the following: (a) a 
mechanism that allows the RGP and the RIC to establish, analyze, and rectify 
inconsistencies detected during registry investigation and analysis; (b) a virtual 
library of the RGP’s databases; and (c) a technical data sheet that will aid the 
current understanding of the status of each registered parcel. 
5. 
Provision of technical assistance to the RIC for the development of its long-term 
business plan with a focus on self-financing all or a portion of its operations and 
that includes, inter alia, the following: (a) a customer-service plan; (b) specific 
products and services for the financial sector; and (c) a marketing strategy for 
cadastral products. 
Part 4: 
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, training, and operating costs to the 
PCU for use in implementing, managing and supervising the Project, including, 
inter alia, the monitoring and evaluation systems, independent evaluations, audits 
and workshops for staff of the PCU. 
-12- 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and operating costs, as needed, to 
the RIC and the Participating Agencies for use in developing and implementing a 
parcel-level, spatial data infrastructure system, including, inter alia, workshops 
for the RIC and the Participating Agencies. 
 
-13- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Agreement; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan to the RIC pursuant to 
a subsidiary agreement (the “Subsidiary Agreement”) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the RIC, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, that shall include, inter alia, the RIC’s obligation 
to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement with respect to the Project; 
(b) 
pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement, promptly transfer, or cause the 
transfer of, any proceeds of the Loan to the RIC that may be deposited by 
the Bank in the Designated Account from time to time during the 
implementation of the Project as specified in this Agreement; 
(c) 
take or cause to be taken all actions, including, inter alia, the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable the RIC to carry out the Project; and 
(d) 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project by the RIC. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
3. 
In the case of a conflict between the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement and 
the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower will ensure that the provisions of 
this Agreement will prevail. 
B. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements; Operational Manual. 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of: 
(a) 
this Agreement, including, inter alia, the provisions in this Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; 
-14- 
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement; 
(c) 
the Operational Manual, including inter alia, the IPDP, the EMP, the 
recommendations of the EA, and the Procurement Plan; 
(d) 
the Participation Agreements; and  
(e) 
the Municipality Agreements. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement: 
(a) 
to maintain the PCU at all times during the implementation of the Project 
with terms of reference, staff and resources satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
by no later than the Effective Date, to appoint an individual or a firm to 
conduct an external audit of the RIC with terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
by no later than the Effective Date, to contract a project coordinator, a 
financial expert and a procurement expert for the PCU, with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions 
of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement: 
(a) 
in coordination with the SAA, RGP, and FONTIERRAS, to prepare a 
draft of the land regularization law that provides, inter alia, for the 
regularization of the types of land described in Articles 36, 38 and 39 of 
the RIC Law (including, inter alia, communal lands (tierras comunales)
and other lands subject to special protection (protección especial)
pursuant to Article 67 of the Constitution as may be identified as 
irregular during the implementation of the Project) (the “Draft Land 
Regularization Law”); and 
(b) 
by no later than the third anniversary of the Effective Date, to furnish the 
Draft Land Regularization Law to the Bank for its comments and to 
consider such comments in preparing the Draft Land Regularization 
Law. 
4. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than six months after the date of this Agreement: 
(a) 
through the Executive Branch: (i) issue a general regulation of the RIC 
Law as contemplated in Article 13(f) of the RIC Law, in coordination 
with the RIC, that provides the rules and procedures for, inter alia (the 
“General Regulation”): (A) the special titling (titulación especial) of 
-15- 
 
lands by the RIC pursuant to Chapter II of Title VII of the RIC Law; and 
(B) the inter-institutional arrangements involved in the process of 
facilitating the regularization of lands, including, inter alia, communal 
lands (tierras comunales); and (ii) if requested by the Bank, provide a 
legal opinion from counsel, whose content will be acceptable to the 
Bank, confirming that the General Regulation addresses the rules and 
procedures described in subclauses (A) and (B) of the foregoing clause 
(i); and 
(b) 
cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to: (i) enter into an 
agreement with each Participating Agency (each, a “Participation 
Agreement”), substantially in the form incorporated in the Operational 
Manual and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, that 
defines the respective roles and obligations of such Participating Agency 
in the Project and incorporates the applicable provisions of this 
Agreement and the Operational Manual, including, inter alia, the IPDP, 
the EMP and the recommendations of the EA; and (ii) furnish the Bank 
with a copy of each of the Participation Agreements signed by all of the 
parties thereto. 
5. 
Prior to initiating any activity in a Municipality of the type described in Parts 1.3 
and 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary 
Agreement, to (i) enter into an agreement with such Municipality (“Municipality 
Agreement”), substantially in the form incorporated in the Operational Manual 
and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, that defines the 
respective roles and obligations of such Municipality in the Project and 
incorporates the applicable provisions of this Agreement and the Operational 
Manual, including, inter alia, the IPDP, the EMP and the recommendations of 
the EA; and (ii) furnish the Bank with a copy of such Municipality Agreement 
signed by all parties thereto. 
6. 
Prior to initiating the activities described in Parts 1.3 through 1.7 of the Project, 
the Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement: 
(a) 
to issue a specific regulation regarding communal lands (reglamento 
específico de tierras comunales) as contemplated in Article 65 of the 
RIC Law (“Specific Regulation on Communal Lands”) that: (i) has been 
consulted with the peasant and indigenous communities in the Project 
Area; and (ii) sets forth the cadastral process that will be followed for 
identifying and defining communal lands (tierras comunales) in 
accordance with ILO 169, including, inter alia, the concept of possession 
that each community exhibits based on its ancestral form of possession. 
(b) 
if requested by the Bank, to provide a legal opinion from the RIC’s 
counsel, whose content will be acceptable to the Bank, confirming that 
-16- 
 
the Specific Regulation on Communal Lands addresses the procedures 
described in clause (a) above. 
7. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, by no later 
than the first anniversary of the date of this Agreement, to adopt a consultative 
system that includes participation by indigenous peoples and other members of 
civil society for the purpose of monitoring and evaluating the implementation of 
the Project in accordance with the terms of reference specified for such system in 
the Operational Manual, including, inter alia, the IPDP. 
8. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of a manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank (the “Operational Manual”), that shall include 
the policies and procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of all 
parts of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) 
the detailed procedures for carrying out all aspects of the cadastral 
process, including, inter alia, the diagnostics and other preparatory 
activities prior to beginning the cadastral process, the social 
communication strategy, the cadastral fieldwork, and the legal and 
technical analysis of the data collected from the cadastral field survey; 
(b) 
a methodological guide (Guía Metodológico) for documenting and 
systematizing the experiences of the cadastre, regularization and 
management of communal lands (tierras comunales) as specified in the 
IPDP; 
(c) 
the IPDP and the participatory procedures for consultation and 
monitoring of the Project at the national, regional and local level that will 
be carried out with the indigenous peoples in the Project Area; 
(d) 
the EMP and the recommendations of the EA; 
(e) 
the procurement and financial management requirements and procedures 
for the Project, including, inter alia, the structure and procedures for the 
flow of all proceeds of the Loan including the transfer of proceeds from 
the Borrower to the RIC and the Procurement Plan;  
(f) 
the standard bidding documents for procurement of Non-Consulting 
Services and Technical Services; 
(g) 
the model of Municipality Agreement acceptable to the Bank; 
(h) 
the model for each of the Participation Agreements acceptable to the 
Bank; and 
-17- 
 
(i) 
the powers, functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff of the PCU 
and the RIC (including, inter alia, the terms of reference for such staff) 
that will be responsible for the coordination, implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project. 
9. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to (a) 
ensure that all bidding documents and contracts under the Project incorporate the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, including, inter alia, the IPDP, the EMP 
and the recommendations of the EA; (b) require that all contractors carrying out 
works, Non-Consulting Services or Technical Services under the Project comply 
with the Operational Manual, including, inter alia, the IPDP, the EMP and the 
recommendations of the EA; and (c) monitor such compliance by contractors as 
described in the foregoing clause (b). 
10. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not cause or allow 
the RIC to amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual, the 
IPDP, the EMP, any Participation Agreement, any Municipality Agreement, or 
any provisions thereof.  In case of any conflict between the terms of this 
Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, any Participation Agreement, or 
any Municipality Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
11. 
While the demarcation of Protected Areas and Proposed Protected Areas under 
the Project is not expected to result in the loss of access to resources by people 
living in or near such Protected Areas and Proposed Protected Areas, in the event 
that any activity under the Project involving a Protected Area could lead to such a 
loss of access, the Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary 
Agreement, prior to initiation of such activity, to develop a process framework, 
acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter carry out such activity in accordance with 
the terms of such process framework. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provision of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.
A. 
Project Reports. 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Project and to prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
-18- 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months prior to the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to 
maintain a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to prepare and furnish to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the immediately preceding 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to have 
the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall 
cover the period of one calendar year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General.
1. 
Goods, Works, Non-Consulting Services and Technical Services.  All goods, 
works, Non-Consulting Services and Technical Services required for the Project 
shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule 
(including, inter alia, Section I of Annex A to this Schedule) and, where 
applicable, the Approved Bidding Documents. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I 
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule 
(including, inter alia, Section II of Annex A to this Schedule). 
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
-19- 
 
4. 
Stipulation of Procedures under the Procurement Law.
For purposes of 
Article 1 of the Procurement Law, the Procurement Guidelines, the Consultant 
Guidelines, and the provisions of this Schedule and the Approved Bidding 
Documents collectively constitute the stipulated procedures for the procurement 
of goods, works, Non-Consulting Services, Technical Services and consulting 
services financed under this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, Non-Consulting 
Services and Technical Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works, Non-Consulting Services and Technical Services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, Non-Consulting Services 
and Technical Services. The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works, Non-Consulting Services and Technical Services. The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
Limited International Bidding  
(b) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional 
provisions set forth in Section I of Annex A to this 
Schedule 2. 
(c) 
Shopping 
(d) 
Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in Section II of Annex A to this Schedule 2.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultant firms for services 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants 
 
-20- 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.  
Procurement of consultants’ services under any such method shall be in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in Section II of Annex A to this 
Schedule 2. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
(g) 
With the Bank’s prior approval, Sole Source Procedures 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
 
Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and 
(c) such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the 
Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to: (a) finance the 
Front-end Fee in accordance with Section 2.07(b) of the General Conditions; and 
(b) finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
-21- 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) 
Goods, works, consultants’ services, 
Non-Consulting Services, Registration 
Costs, and Training under Part 1 of the 
Project 
14,150,000
100% 
(2) 
Technical Services under Parts 1.3 
through 1.7 of the Project 
17,800,000
100% 
(3) 
Goods, works, consultants’ services, 
Non-Consulting Services, Operating 
Costs, and Training under Part 2 of the 
Project 
13,320,000
100% 
(4) 
Goods, works, consultants’ services, 
Non-Consulting Services, Operating 
Costs, and Training under Part 3 of the 
Project 
7,760,000
100% 
(5) 
Goods, works, consultants’ services, 
Non-Consulting Services, Operating 
Costs, and Training under Part 4 of the 
Project 
8,620,000
100% 
(6) 
Front-end Fee 
155,750
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(7) 
Unallocated 
494,250
TOTAL AMOUNT 
62,300,000
-22- 
 
3. 
Capitalized terms used in the table in paragraph 2 above are defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end 
Fee; or 
(b) 
for payments made for any expenditures under Category (2) unless and 
until the RIC has issued the Specific Regulation on Communal Lands in 
accordance with paragraph 6 (a) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 1, 2013. 
-23- 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
Additional Provisions Relating to  
Particular Methods of Procurement 
Section I. 
Goods, Works, Non-Consulting Services and Technical Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the 
Procurement Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all goods, 
works, Non-Consulting Services, and Technical Services procured for the Project 
(pursuant to Section III.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) under contracts awarded on 
the basis of National Competitive Bidding (“NCB Contracts”): 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the RIC, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to submit 
all forms and models of requests for quotations and bidding documents that the 
RIC proposes to use for the procurement of goods, works, Non-Consulting 
Services, and Technical Services under NCB Contracts (the “Model Bidding 
Documents”) to the Bank for its approval before the RIC issues its first invitation 
for bids for any of the NCB Contracts for the Project.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, neither the Borrower nor the RIC shall revise or otherwise 
modify or change the Model Bidding Documents that have been approved by the 
Bank in accordance with the foregoing sentence (the “Approved Bidding 
Documents”).   
2. 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder: (a) who meets the appropriate technical and financial 
standards or capabilities; and (b) whose bid has been determined to be the lowest 
evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the 
specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the Approved 
Bidding Documents.  If the bid evaluation will consider any factor other than the 
amount or amounts of each bid, the Approved Bidding Documents will precisely 
stipulate and describe each such factor, including, inter alia, the manner in which 
such factor will be quantified and given a relative weight for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid.  The award of contracts for goods, works, 
Non-Consulting Services, and Technical Services shall be based exclusively on 
price and, whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to 
those referred to in paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement Guidelines; provided, 
however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be 
quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be 
disclosed in the invitation to bid. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, 
the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or 
amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, as such bid may be corrected by the 
Borrower for arithmetic errors. 
-24- 
 
3. 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate and shall not, as a condition for 
participating in the bidding process, be required to: 
(a) 
be registered in the Borrower’s territory; 
(b) 
have a representative in the Borrower’s territory; 
(c) 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders; or 
(d) 
legalize their bids or any documentation related to such bids with an 
embassy or consulate of the Borrower, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, or any other governmental authority or representative of 
the Borrower, as a pre-condition to participating in the bidding process. 
4. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents 
and call for bids. 
5. 
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the standards and technical 
specifications of the Borrower or the RIC shall be acceptable. 
6. 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding 
a contract for goods or works. 
7. 
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders. 
8. 
The Borrower shall open, or cause the opening of, all bids at the stipulated time 
and place in accordance with a procedure satisfactory to the Bank.  
9. 
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower or the RIC shall apply 
without the prior review and approval of the Bank.  
Section II. 
Selection of Consultant Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the Consultant 
Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all consultants’ services 
procured for the Project (pursuant to Section III.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement): 
1. 
Foreign consultants will be allowed to participate and will not, as a condition for 
participating in the selection process, be required to: 
(a) 
be registered in the Borrower’s territory; 
(b) 
have a representative in the Borrower’s territory; 
-25- 
 
(c) 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, unless the 
conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met; 
or 
(d) 
legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such proposals 
with an embassy or consulate of the Borrower, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs, or any other governmental authority or representative 
of the Borrower, as a pre-condition to participating in the selection 
process. 
2. 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding 
a contract for consulting services. 
-26- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2013 
 
through March 15, 2022 
 
5.0% 
On September 15, 2022 
5.0% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
-27- 
 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
-28- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Approved Bidding Documents” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 1 of 
Section I of Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Beneficiaries” means any of the following: (a) any Participating Agency; 
(b) any Municipality; and (c) any person (whether an individual or a legal entity) 
that has ownership, possession, or tenancy of a parcel within the Project Area. 
 
4. 
“Cadastral Zones” means those zones within the Project Area that the RIC has 
declared to be undergoing the cadastral process pursuant to the RIC Law. 
 
5. 
“Category” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“CONAP” means the Consejo Nacional de Áreas Protegidas, the Borrower’s 
National Council for Protected Areas. 
 
7. 
“Constitution” means the Constitución Política de la República de Guatemala,
Borrower’s political constitution. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Draft Land Regularization Law” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 3 (a) 
of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Executive Branch” means the Organismo Ejecutivo, the Borrower executive 
branch as defined for purposes of the RIC Law. 
 
11. 
“EA” means the Environmental Analysis (Análisis Ambiental) dated November 
1, 2006, that was prepared by the RIC and approved by the Bank, as the same 
may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time with the 
consent of the Bank (including, inter alia, as may be necessary to address the 
addition of departments to the definition of “Project Area” as contemplated in 
clause (c) of paragraph 37 of Section I of this Appendix). 
 
-29- 
 
12. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan (Plan de Manejo Ambiental)
dated November 1, 2006, that was prepared by the RIC and approved by the 
Bank, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from 
time to time with the consent of the Bank (including, inter alia, as may be 
necessary to address the addition of departments to the definition of “Project 
Area” as contemplated in clause (c) of paragraph 37 of Section I of this 
Appendix). 
 
13. 
“FONTIERRAS” means the Fondo de Tierras, the Borrower’s Land Fund 
created pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 24-99, as supplemented by the 
Borrower’s Regulation No. 199-2000, for the purpose, inter alia, of regularizing 
previously national lands that were granted to persons pursuant to previous 
agrarian reforms. 
 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
15. 
“General Regulation” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 4 (a) of Section 
I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“IDAEH” means the Instituto de Antropología e Historia, the Borrower’s 
Institute of Anthropology and History. 
 
17. 
“IGN” means the Instituto Geográfico Nacional, the Borrower’s National 
Geographic Institute. 
 
18. 
“ILO 169” means the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention (Convention 
No. 169), as adopted on June 27, 1989, by the General Conference of the 
International Labour Organization and ratified by the Borrower. 
 
19. 
“Indicators” means the impact, performance and implementation indicators set 
forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith. 
 
20. 
“IPDP” means the Indigenous Participation Plan (Plan de Participación 
Indígena) dated October 2006, that was prepared by the RIC and approved by the 
Bank, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from 
time to time with the consent of the Bank (including, inter alia, as may be 
necessary to address the addition of departments to the definition of “Project 
Area” as contemplated in clause (c) of paragraph 37 of Section I of this 
Appendix). 
 
21. 
“Minister of Public Finance” means the Ministro de Finanzas Públicas,
Borrower’s minister of public finance . 
-30- 
 
22. 
“Model Bidding Documents” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 1 of 
Section I of Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Municipal Cluster Offices” means, collectively, the representative offices of the 
RIC established in the Cadastral Zones to serve “clusters” of five to eight 
municipalities with the basic purpose of ensuring that the objectives and results 
of the Project are achieved effectively and efficiently at the local level and 
composed of social, technical and legal specialists. 
 
24. 
“Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s municipalities located in the Project 
Area that is a legally autonomous entity and is expected to participate in the 
Project.  “Municipalities” means, collectively, all such municipalities. 
 
25. 
“Municipality Agreement” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 5 of 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  “Municipality Agreements” means, 
collectively, all of such agreements. 
 
26. 
“Non-Consulting Services” means expenditures covered by the Procurement 
Guidelines (other than those expenditures for Operating Costs, Registration 
Costs, Technical Services, or Training) incurred by the RIC for the purposes of 
the Project and directly related to the activities of the Project that consist of costs 
related to the following: (i) publication of diagnostics; and (ii) alternative dispute 
resolution panels. 
 
27. 
“OCRET” means the Oficina de Control de Áreas de Reserva del Estado, the 
Borrower’s Office of Territorial Reserves. 
 
28. 
“Official Gazette” means the Diario de Centroamérica, the official gazette of the 
Recipient’s government. 
 
29. 
“Operational Manual” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 8 of Section I.B 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended, supplemented or 
otherwise modified from time to time with the consent of the Bank. 
 
30. 
“Operating Costs” means expenditures (other than those expenditures for 
consultants’ services, Non-Consulting Services, Registration Costs, Technical 
Services and Training) that the Bank agrees have been reasonably incurred by the 
RIC in connection with incremental recurrent costs associated with the 
implementation of the Project by the RIC, including, inter alia: (a) salaries of 
incremental staff for the PCU; and (b) recurrent costs associated with the 
implementation of the Project, including: (i) operation, leasing and maintenance 
of: (A) office equipment, vehicles (including fuel, repairs and spare parts); and 
(B) office facilities under the Project; (ii) insurance for equipment and vehicles 
procured under the Project; (iii) office utilities associated with the functioning of 
-31- 
 
the PCU, (iv) communications expenses required for the implementation of the 
Project, including, inter alia, advertising in general (notifications, edicts, and so 
forth), design of radio campaigns, radio advertisements, national campaigns, and 
communication services in general; and (v) office materials. 
 
31. 
“Participating Agency” means any of the following: CONAP, FONTIERRAS, 
IDAEH, IGN, OCRET, RGP or SAA.  “Participating Agencies” means 
collectively, all of such agencies and entities. 
 
32. 
“Participation Agreement” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 4 (b) of 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  “Participation Agreements” means 
collectively, all of such agreement. 
 
33. 
“PCU” means the project coordination unit integrated to the functional and 
organizational structure of the RIC that was approved by the Executive Board 
(Consejo Directivo) of the RIC on October 4, 2006, with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to coordinate and manage the Project. 
 
34. 
“Procurement Law” means the Recipient’s Decree No. 57-92 (Ley de 
Contrataciones del Estado) of October 5, 1992, as amended and as in effect on 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
35. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
36. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan prepared by the RIC for the 
Project, dated November 10, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
37. 
“Program” means the program designed to support the Borrower’s national land 
administration program and set forth or referred to in the letter dated June 25, 
1998, from the Borrower to the Bank. 
 
38. 
“Project Area” means the physical areas in the following: (a) the Borrower’s 
Departments of Alta Verapaz, Baja Verapaz, Chiquimula, Escuintla, Izabal, 
Quiche, Sacatepequez, and Zacapa where the activities of the Project will be 
carried out; (b) the Borrower’s Department of El Petén, where only activities of 
the Project constituting technical assistance and Training will be carried out; and 
(c) such other of the Borrower’s departments, which subject to the Bank’s prior 
consent, the Borrower may from time to time choose to include among those 
departments where the activities of the Project may be carried out. 
 
-32- 
 
39. 
“Protected Areas and Proposed Protected Areas” means, collectively, those areas 
which have been declared as protected (áreas protegidas) and those areas of 
special protection (áreas de protección especial), which are both described in the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 4-89 of January 7, 1989, as amended. 
 
40. 
“Registration Costs” means reasonable expenditures (other than those 
expenditures for consultants’ services, Non-Consulting Services, Operating 
Costs, Technical Services, or Training) incurred by the RIC in connection with 
the fees assessed by the RGP for the annotation, inscription or registration of 
cadastral or other property information in the records maintained by the RGP, 
provided that the Bank has agreed that such fees and expenses are reasonable and 
consistent with the amounts that would be assessed by the RGP for the same or 
comparable activities carried out by third parties outside of the scope of the 
Project. 
 
41. 
“RGP” means the Registro General de la Propiedad, the Borrower’s General 
Property Registry. 
 
42. 
“RIC” means the Registro de Información Catastral, the Borrower’s Registry of 
Cadastral Information, which was created pursuant to the RIC Law. 
 
43. 
“RIC Law” means the Borrower’s Decree Number 41-2005 (Ley del Registro de 
Información Catastral) of June 15, 2005, as in effect on the date of this 
Agreement, together with the General Regulation and the Specific Regulation of 
Communal Lands, once the foregoing regulations have been formally issued by 
the Executive Branch and the RIC, respectively. 
 
44. 
“SAA” means the Secretaría de Asuntos Agrarios, the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Agrarian Matters.
45. 
“Specific Regulation on Communal Lands” has the meaning given to it in 
paragraph 6 (a) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
46. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 1(a) of Section 
I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
47. 
“Technical Services” means expenditures covered by the Procurement Guidelines 
(other than those expenditures for works, Non-Consulting Services, Operating 
Costs, Registration Costs and Training) incurred by the RIC for the purposes of 
the Project and directly related to the activities of the Project that consist of costs 
related to the cadastral survey and land regularization activities, including, inter 
alia, costs for geodesy and mapping, field data acquisition, and quality control 
activities. 
 
-33- 
 
48. 
“Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those expenditures for 
consultants’ services, Non-Consulting Services, Operating Costs, Registration 
Costs and Technical Services) incurred by the RIC for the purposes of the Project 
and directly related to the activities of the Project, including, inter alia, costs 
related to: (i) training materials; (ii) local and foreign travel costs and per diems 
for trainees; (iii) scholarships and fellowships for training courses to be provided 
in the Borrower's territory or in foreign countries; and (iv) study tours and 
internships in the Borrower's territory or in foreign countries. 
 
49. 
“Vice Ministers of Public Finance” means, collectively, the Viceministro del 
Area de Administración Financiera, the Borrower’s Vice Minister of the Area of 
Financial Administration, and the Viceministro del Area de Patrimonio del 
Estado, the Borrower’s Vice Minister of the Area of Patrimony of the State. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
The definition of “Project Implementing Entity” in the Appendix to the General 
Conditions shall be amended and replaced in its entirety with the following text: 
“Project Implementing Entity” means a legal entity (other than 
the Borrower or the Guarantor) which is responsible for 
implementing all or a part of the Project and which: (a) is a party 
to the Project Agreement; or (b) is not a party to the Project 
Agreement but is a party to an agreement (referred to in a Legal 
Agreement as a “Subsidiary Agreement”) whereby such party's 
role in implementing the Project or any part thereof is set forth.  
If there is more than one such entity, “Project Implementing 
Entity” refers separately to each such entity. For cases where 
clause (b) of this definition applies: the last sentence of Section 
1.01 of these General Conditions shall be disregarded; the Bank's 
obligation in Section 7.07(b)(ii) of these General Conditions to 
notify the Project Implementing Entity shall be disregarded; 
references to the Project Implementing Entity in Articles IX and 
X of these General Conditions shall be disregarded with the 
exception of the reference in Section 10.03; and, in those other 
Sections of these General Conditions where reference is made to 
a Project Implementing Entity’s obligations under the Project 
Agreement or under a Legal Agreement, such obligations shall 
be deemed to be those set forth in the respective “Subsidiary 
Agreement” 
referred 
to 
herein.
 
