CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4881-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Guiyang Transport Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 18, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 18, 2008,
between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of  
thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be 
calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the General Conditions.  
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
On each of the semiannual Payment Dates specified in Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, the interest 
2
on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up to the 
amount allocated in, Category (4) of the table in paragraph A.2, Section IV, 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Category may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall, through Guizhou Province, cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  Pursuant to Section 7.02(k) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
event is specified, namely, that any of the parties to the Subsidiary Agreement 
shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
3
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Yang Shaolin  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to increase the access and 
mobility of Guiyang Municipality’s transport users through priority infrastructure 
investments while establishing more sustainable mechanisms for rural road maintenance, 
as well as enhancing capacity for keeping municipal debt under control. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Youxiao Road
Construction of about 7 kilometers of urban arterial road to provide access 
between Youzhajie located in the southeastern corner of Guiyang’s urban core 
and Xiaobi in the Longdongbao area, including road, tunnel, and bridge civil 
works.  
 
Part B: Rural Transport
Construction and rehabilitation of about 44 selected rural road segments to Class 
III or Class IV national technical standard of the Ministry of Communications of 
the Borrower with an aggregate length of about 903kms (668kms of main roads 
and 235kms of access roads) and construction of about 45 rural bus stations to 
Class IV and Class V national standard of the Ministry of Communications of the 
Borrower and one rural freight depot.  
 
Part C: Institutional Development
Strengthening the long-term institutional capacity of Guiyang Municipality to 
develop the transport sector through: (i) a traffic survey; (ii) technical assistance 
in rural road maintenance system; (iii) technical assistance in a debt management 
system; and (iv) training activities.  
 
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangement 
1. 
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make available the 
proceeds of the Loan to Guizhou Province, and shall cause Guizhou Province to make 
available said proceeds to Guiyang Municipality, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, and the following principal terms:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.   
 
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
Front-end Fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Sections 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate or shall cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the 
basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.  
Each Project Report shall cover a six (6) month calendar period in each year that is from 
January through June and from July through December, commencing on July 1, 2007, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A.1 of this Section, the Borrower 
shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of 
the Project Report, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
6
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
maintain a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Financial Statements to be audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 
of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured 
in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
 
7
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(a) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on 
August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
8
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost.  The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (i) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
 
9
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(c) Individual Consultant 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) all contracts for 
goods and civil works procured through International Competitive Bidding regardless of 
the contract value; (b) each contract for civil works procured through National 
Competitive Bidding estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (c) all 
contracts for goods procured through National Competitive Bidding estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more; (d) the first contract for goods and civil works procured 
through Shopping regardless of the contract value; and (e) each contract for consultants’ 
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for firms, and $50,000 or 
more for individuals.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for 
Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
10 
Expenditures in each Category, inclusive of taxes subject to the provisions of  
Section 2.06 of the General Conditions. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(1)  Civil works: 
 
(a) under Part A of the Project 
 
(b) under Part B of the Project 
 
39,380,000 
 
36,820,000 
 
60% 
 
60% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
and 
Consultants’ 
services under Part A of the 
Project 
 
13,350,000  
100% 
(3) Goods, consultants’ services 
and training under Part C of the 
Project 
 
1,200,000 
100% 
(4)  Interest  
9,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement 
 
(5)  Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions.  
Total 
100,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for:  
 
(a)  
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after August 1, 2007, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3); and  
 
(b)  
expenditures under categories (1) and (2) unless: 
 
11 
(i)  
the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been duly executed by the 
Project Implementing Entity and Guiyang Tongyuan Road 
Construction Development Co. Ltd., in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, and pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 4, Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
and a copy thereof has been provided to the Bank; and  
 
(ii) 
a legal opinion from counsel acceptable to the Bank has been 
provided to the Bank affirming that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto 
and is legally binding on said parties in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
12 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Payment of Principal� 
 
September 15, 2012 
March 15, 2013 
September 15, 2013 
March 15, 2014 
September 15, 2014 
March 15, 2015 
September 15, 2015 
March 15, 2016 
September 15, 2016 
March 15, 2017 
September 15, 2017 
March 15, 2018 
September 15, 2018 
March 15, 2019 
September 15, 2019 
March 15, 2020 
September 15, 2020 
March 15, 2021 
September 15, 2021 
March 15, 2022 
September 15, 2022 
March 15, 2023 
September 15, 2023 
March 15, 2024 
September 15, 2024 
March 15, 2025 
 
2,635,000 
2,710,000 
2,790,000 
2,870,000 
2,955,000 
3,040,000 
3,125,000 
3,215,000 
3,310,000 
3,405,000 
3,500,000 
3,605,000 
3,705,000 
3,815,000 
3,925,000 
4,035,000 
4,155,000 
4,275,000 
4,395,000 
4,525,000 
4,655,000 
4,790,000 
4,925,000 
5,070,000 
5,215,000 
5,355,000 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.08 of the General Conditions. 
 
13 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
  
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of Parts A 
and B of the Project has experienced or would experience direct economic and 
social impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) 
relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of 
income sources or means of  livelihood, whether or not such person must move 
to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally 
designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the 
livelihood of such person; and “Displaced Persons” means  collectively, all such 
Displaced Persons. 
 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated December 2006 and 
duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, and referred to in paragraph 2, 
Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and which said Plan sets out 
the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank.  
 
5. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity on April 24, 2007 and referred to in paragraph B.2,  
Section II of the Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with the 
modification set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Guiyang Municipality” means the Guiyang Municipality of the Borrower’s 
Guizhou Province and any successor thereto.  
 
8. 
“Guiyang Project Management Office” or “GPMO” means the project 
management office established within the Guiyang Municipal Communications 
Bureau for the purpose of managing the Project and providing oversight of 
Guiyang Tongyuan Road Company’s implementation of the Project. 
 
 
14 
9. 
“Guizhou Province” means the Guizhou Province of the Borrower and any 
successor thereto.  
 
10. 
“Guiyang Tongyuan Road Construction Development Co. Ltd.” means the state-
owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter 
dated August 28, 1997 and to Business License No. 5201001233556 (1-1), dated 
August 3, 2004 issued by Guiyang Business Administrative Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“IPDP” means the Indigenous People Development Plan dated August 30, 2007  
and duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, and referred to in 
paragraph 2, Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and which Plan 
sets out measures to ensure that minority communities affected by the project 
benefit from the project in a culturally appropriate manner, with particular 
reference to implementation of the RAP, and contain administrative, planning 
and monitoring arrangements for the implementation of said Plan, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated November 9, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Guiyang Municipality and any successor 
thereto. 
 
16. 
“Project Leading Group” means the group established by the Project 
Implementing Entity in January 2005 for purposes of overall coordination and 
cooperation among the various entities during the preparation and 
implementation of the Project. 
 
17. 
“RAP” means, the resettlement action plan dated February 2007 with respect to 
Parts A and B of the Project, duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, 
and referred to in paragraph 2, Section I of Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement, 
which sets out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of 
 
15 
the execution of such Parts of the Project, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements  to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and such term includes 
all attachments and annexes supplemental to said plans.  
 
18.  
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the Project 
Implementing Entity and Guiyang Tongyuan Road Construction Development 
Co. Ltd. for purposes of carrying out the works under Parts A and B of the 
Project and further referred to in paragraph 4, Section I of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Loans of the Bank, dated July 1, 2005 
are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 2.07(b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the 
Effective Date and pay to itself the amount of the Front-end Fee payable pursuant 
to Section 3.01.” 
 
2. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee 
 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Loan amount at the rate 
specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fee”).” 
 
3. 
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.02 to read as follows: 
 
 
“Section 3.02. Interest 
 
 
 
 
(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the 
Default Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified 
in the Loan Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant 
to Article IV as a result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  
Interest at the Default Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default 
Interest Period and shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment 
Date.” 
 
 
16 
4. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a)  
The term “Commitment Charge” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(b) 
A new term “Default Interest Period” is added to the Appendix and 
defined to read as follows:  
 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such 
overdue amount remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such 
Default Interest Period shall commence on the 31st day following the date 
on which such amount becomes overdue, and the final such Default 
Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is fully paid. 
 
(c) 
A new term “Default Interest Rate” is added to the Appendix and defined 
to read as follows: 
 
 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
 
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  Default 
LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one percent 
(0.5%). 
 
(d) 
A new term “Default LIBOR” is added to the Appendix and defined to 
read as follows:  
 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR 
 
17 
shall be equal to LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue. 
 
(e) 
A new term “Default Variable Rate” is added to the Appendix and 
defined to read as follows: 
 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, 
Default Variable Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest 
Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 
first becomes overdue. 
 
 
(f)  
The definition of the term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan 
Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided further that 
notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on 
which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one 
calendar day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of 
denomination of such amount. 
 
 
(g) 
The definition of the term “Front-end Fee” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Front-end Fee” means the fee specified in the Loan Agreement for the 
purpose of Section 3.01. 
 
 
(h) 
The definition of the term “LIBOR Reset Date” is modified to read as 
follows:  
 
“LIBOR Reset Date” means: 
 
(a)  
for any Loan Currency other than Euro, the day two London 
Banking Days prior to the first day of the relevant Interest Period (or: (i) 
in the case of the initial Interest Period of a Variable Spread Loan, the 
day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth day of the month 
preceding the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed; provided 
that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth day 
of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset 
 
18 
Date shall be the day two London Banking Days prior to the fifteenth 
day of such month; (ii) in the case of the Initial Interest Period of a Fixed 
Spread Loan, the day two London Banking Days prior to the first or 
fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, 
whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; 
provided, that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or 
fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two 
London Banking Days prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) 
if the Conversion Date of a Currency Conversion of an amount of the 
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance to any Approved Currency other than Euro 
falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial LIBOR Reset Date 
for the Approved Currency shall be the day two London Banking Days 
prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Conversion 
Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes the Conversion Date; 
provided, that if the Conversion Date falls on the first or fifteenth day of 
such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be 
the day two London Banking Days prior to the Conversion Date);  
 
(b)  
for Euro, the day two Target Settlement Days prior to the first 
day of the relevant Interest Period (or: (i) in the case of the initial Interest 
Period for a Variable Spread Loan, the day two Target Settlement Days 
prior to the fifteenth day of the month preceding the month in which the 
Loan Agreement is signed; provided that if the date of the Loan 
Agreement falls on or after the fifteenth day of the month in which the 
Loan Agreement is signed, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two 
Target Settlement Days prior to the fifteenth day of such month; (ii) in 
the case of the Initial Interest Period for a Fixed Spread Loan, the day 
two Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the 
month in which the Loan Agreement is signed, whichever day 
immediately precedes the date of the Loan Agreement; provided that if 
the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the first or fifteenth day of such 
month, the LIBOR Reset Date shall be the day two Target Settlement 
Days prior to the date of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) if the Conversion 
Date of a Currency Conversion of an amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan 
Balance to Euro falls on a day other than a Payment Date, the initial 
LIBOR Reset Date for the Approved Currency shall be the day two 
Target Settlement Days prior to the first or fifteenth day of the month in 
which the Conversion Date falls, whichever day immediately precedes 
the Conversion Date; provided that if the Conversion Date falls on the 
first or fifteenth day of such month, the LIBOR Reset Date for the 
Approved Currency shall be the day two Target Settlement Days prior to 
the Conversion Date); and  
 
(c)  
notwithstanding sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, if, 
for a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency, the Bank 
 
19 
determines that market practice for the determination of the LIBOR 
Reset Date is on a date other than as set forth in said sub-paragraphs, the 
LIBOR Reset Date shall be such other date, as further specified in the 
Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(i) 
The definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, 
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan 
Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, interest at the Default Interest Rate 
(if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion 
or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any 
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower. 
 
 
(j) 
The definition of the term “Payment Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is 
payable. 
 
 
