CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7559-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Migrant Skills Development and Employment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 13, 2008 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 13, 2008, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”).   
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall through MOHRSS carry out its Respective Parts of the 
Project and cause the Project Implementing Entities to carry out their Respective 
Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Ministry of Human 
Resources and Social Security, Anhui Province, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and 
Shandong Province in providing support to rural workers in transitioning to urban areas 
to enable such workers to access better employment opportunities and improve their 
financial and working conditions.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Skills Development 
 
(a) 
Enhance the capacity of the Project Implementing Entities to deliver skills 
training to rural migrants according to market demand, including providing 
equipment to model training centers and public training platforms, and providing 
mobile training bases to serve remote rural areas.  
 
(b) 
Improve the quality, relevance, and flexibility of training provided to rural 
migrants, including assessing the learning needs of migrant labor and market 
demand, developing modular competency-based curricula and learning materials, 
training instructors and school managers, and developing mechanisms to 
strengthen industry-school linkage.  
 
(c) 
Improve the functioning of training markets including, strengthening provincial-
level policies governing accreditation of training institutes and policies governing 
public training subsidies for migrants, and providing information packages for 
migrants on training opportunities to help them make better training decisions. 
 
Part 2. Employment Services 
 
(a) 
Improve labor market information and employment services for rural migrants 
including, enhancing labor market information system and extending such system 
and employment service institutions to county and township levels, piloting new 
information delivery mechanisms for migrants, such as group-based delivery, job 
fairs, and group counseling, and providing training to employment services staff 
and management.   
 
(b) 
Improve policies governing and institutions for employment services, including 
developing regulations governing public employment services and improving 
regulations governing licensing and accreditation of employment service 
providers. 
 
5
Part 3. Worker Protection 
 
(a) 
Improve employment conditions for rural migrants, including assessing and 
testing approaches to increase labor contract coverage, evaluating mechanisms to 
ensure timely payment of wages, improving minimum wage policies, and 
developing tools and capacity to facilitate collective bargaining.  
 
(b) 
Improve access to legal services and increase awareness of worker rights, 
including piloting programs for provision of legal aid services to migrants, 
evaluating ways to expedite the arbitration process for migrant workers and 
developing tools to raise awareness of workers’ rights and employers’ 
responsibilities. 
 
Part 4. Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project Management 
 
(a) 
Carry out studies to improve the understanding of trends of migration, challenges 
faced by migrants, and policy options to address such issues; and providing 
access by the relevant government agencies to relevant knowledge, data, local 
policies, best practices, research findings, and other information concerning 
immigration.   
 
(b) 
Develop indicators and systems for monitoring and evaluating migrant training 
and employment services, and the impacts of the Project interventions.    
(c) 
Provide technical assistance, and carry out study tours and training to support 
Project management, and build capacity in management and planning skills for 
policymakers and program managers. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Project Management 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOHRSS, shall maintain, and cause to be maintained, 
for purposes of carrying out the Project, the following organizations, with terms 
of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project:  
 
(a) 
The Project Steering Committee (“PSC”), led by the Vice Minister of 
MOHRSS, responsible for providing guidance on overall project 
implementation and facilitating inter-agency coordination, coordinating 
cross-sectoral policy issues related to rural migrants training and 
employment, supervising Project implementation and assisting in the 
dissemination of learning and experience sharing.  
 
(b) 
The World Bank Operations Office (“WBOO”), established as a division 
of the Finance and Planning Department of MOHRSS, responsible for 
overall Project management, coordinating the Project Implementing 
Entities and providing Project management support.  
 
(c) 
The Project Technical Team (“PTT”), comprising key technical staff 
from the MOHRSS and its local counterparts, responsible for identifying 
specific needs for technical assistance in implementing the Project, 
assessing investment decisions, developing terms of reference for 
consultants services, reviewing and evaluating proposals for consultants’ 
services, monitoring Project progress, assessing Project outputs, and 
assisting with the dissemination of the lessons and experiences.   
 
2. 
The Borrower, through MOHRSS, shall establish and maintain throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project, for purposes of carrying out the Project, 
the following organization, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources 
acceptable to the Bank, namely the Expert Panel (“EP”), comprising leading 
experts in key focus areas of the Project (including, labor economics, skills 
development, active labor market policies, labor regulations, monitoring and 
evaluation), to be responsible for providing advisory support in the decision-
making process and for Project management. 
7
B. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to each 
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn. 
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall be 
recovered over a period of seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of four (4) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MOHRSS, shall monitor and evaluate, and cause each 
Project Implementing Entity to: (a) monitor and evaluate the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project; and (b) prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators set forth in the Annex to the Schedule of the Project Agreement.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and 
MOHRSS shall consolidate the Project Reports received from the Project 
Implementing Entities pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section II.A of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement and furnish a consolidated Project Report to the Bank by 
February 15 and August 15 each year, starting February 15, 2009.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
8
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, and cause each Project Implementing Entity to prepare and 
furnish, to the Bank as part of the Project Report by not later than February 15 
and August 15 in each year, starting February 15, 2009, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55  
and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
9
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). In addition, the procedures to be 
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law 
on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by 
Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on 
August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with 
the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made 
in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days 
shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in 
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and 
the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the 
deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the 
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there 
shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v)
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The
10
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall 
not be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in 
the form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, 
to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the 
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (i) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are 
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the 
procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number 
of bids is less than three (3). 
(b)  
Shopping 
11
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.  
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Single-source Selection 
(c)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)   Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods to be procured based on ICB procedures, regardless of 
contract value thereof; (b) the first contract for goods to be procured based on 
NCB or shopping procedures by each Project Implementing Entity, regardless of 
contract value thereof; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services to be procured 
using Sole-source Selection or Single-source Selection procedure, regardless of 
contract value thereof.   All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
 
12
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category (inclusive of Taxes). 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
1. Goods, consultants’ services, training and 
Operating Costs for implementation of the 
following Parts of the Project by MOHRSS:
(a) Part 1 
2,800,000 
100% 
(b) Part 2 
500,000 
100% 
(c) Part 3 
450,000 
100% 
(d) Part 4 
1,237,500 
100% 
 
2. Goods, consultants’ services, training and 
Operating Costs for implementation of the 
following Parts of the Project by Anhui:
(a) Part 1 
13,309,500 
100% 
(b) Part 2 
1,065,500 
100% 
(c) Part 3 
140,000 
100% 
(d) Part 4 
447,500 
100% 
 
3. Goods, consultants’ services, training and 
Operating Costs for implementation of the 
following Parts of the Project by Ningxia:
(a) Part 1 
7,920,300 
100% 
(b) Part 2 
802,100 
100% 
(c) Part 3 
287,700 
100% 
(d) Part 4 
964,900 
100% 
 
4. Goods, consultants’ services, training and 
Operating Costs for implementation of the 
following Parts of the Project by Shandong:
(a) Part 1 
18,707,500 
100% 
(b) Part 2 
875,000 
100% 
(c) Part 3 
0.0 
100% 
(d) Part 4 
367,500 
100% 
13
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
5. Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount 
payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of 
this Agreement 
in accordance 
with Section 
2.07(b) of the 
General 
Conditions 
Total 
50,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 1, 2008 for 
Eligible Expenditures.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is August 31, 2012. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertaking
1. 
The Borrower, through MOHRSS, shall: (a) carry out its Respective Parts of the 
Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) by August 15 in each year, commencing on 
August 15, 2009, prepare an update of said Project Implementation Plan 
(including, an annual work program, procurement plan and budget for Project 
activities in the following calendar year) for its Respective Parts of the Project 
and consolidate its update with the updates received from the Project 
Implementing Entities pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section IV of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement and furnish the consolidated update to the Bank for its 
concurrence. 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
September 15, 2012 
2.78% 
March 15, 2013 
2.85% 
September 15, 2013 
2.92% 
March 15, 2014 
2.99% 
September 15, 2014 
3.07% 
March 15, 2015 
3.15% 
September 15, 2015 
3.22% 
March 15, 2016 
3.30% 
September 15, 2016 
3.39% 
March 15, 2017 
3.47% 
September 15, 2017 
3.56% 
March 15, 2018 
3.65% 
September 15, 2018 
3.74% 
March 15, 2019 
3.83% 
September 15, 2019 
3.93% 
March 15, 2020 
4.03% 
September 15, 2020 
4.13% 
March 15, 2021 
4.23% 
September 15, 2021 
4.34% 
March 15, 2022 
4.44% 
September 15, 2022 
4.56% 
March 15, 2023 
4.67% 
September 15, 2023 
4.79% 
March 15, 2024 
4.91% 
September 15, 2024 
5.03% 
March 15, 2025 
5.02% 
15
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
16
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
17
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
(b) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
(d) 
“Expert Panel” means the panel referred to in paragraph 2 in Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(e) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
(f) 
“MOHRSS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Human Resources and Social 
Society, and any successor thereto. 
 
(g) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable expenditures directly related to the 
Project implementation incurred by MOHRSS and the Project Implementing 
Entities (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project), 
including costs of travel, vehicle and equipment maintenance and repair, office 
supplies, communications, logistics, translation, production and reproduction of 
documents and training materials, but excluding salaries and salary supplements 
of civil servants. 
 
(h) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
(i) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(j) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entities of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
18
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
(k) 
“Project Counties” means the Counties of Taihu, Yuexi, Shouxian, Lingbi,  
Dangshan, Jinzhai, Xiji, Longde, Jingyuan, Pengyang, Tongxin, and Yanchi; and 
other Counties selected by agreement among the Borrower, the Project 
Implementing Entities and the Bank, and any successors thereto; and “Project 
County” means, individually, any of such Project Counties.  
 
(l) 
“Project Implementing Entity” means, individually, Anhui Province, Ningxia Hui 
Autonomous Region or Shandong Province, and any successor thereto; and 
“Project Implementing Entities” means, collectively, all such provinces and 
autonomous region. 
 
(m) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan, dated May 2008, prepared for 
guiding the implementation of the Project activities within the first eighteen (18) 
months, including Project implementation arrangements, disbursement, financial 
management and procurement procedures consistent with the relevant provisions 
in this Agreement; as the same may be updated from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
(n) 
“Project Municipalities” means the Municipalities of Anqing, Suzhou, 
Maanshan,  Liuan, Guyuan, Wuzhong, Zaozhuang, Yantai, Linyi, and Bingzhou; 
and any other municipalities selected by agreement among the Borrower, the 
Project Implementing Entities and the Bank, and the successors thereto; and 
“Project Municipality” means, individually, any of such Project Municipalities. 
 
(o) 
“Respective Project Counties” means in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Anhui Province:  Counties of Taihu, Yuexi, Shouxian, Lingbi, Dangshan, 
and Jinzhai; and 
 
(ii) 
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region: Counties of Xiji, Longde, Jingyuan, 
Pengyang, Tongxin, and Yanchi;  
 
and any successors thereto. 
 
(p) 
“Respective Project Municipalities” means in respect of: 
 
(i) 
Anhui Province:  Municipalities of Anqing, Suzhou, Maanshan, and 
Liuan;  
 
(ii) 
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region: Municipalities of Guyuan and 
Wuzhong; and 
 
19
(iii) 
Shandong Province: Municipalities of Zaozhuang, Yantai, Linyi, and 
Bingzhou  
 
and any successors thereto. 
 
(q) 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means, with respect to MOHRSS, each Project 
Implementing Entity, each Project Municipality and each Project County, the 
implementation of the Project in the areas within its jurisdiction. 
 
