CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7537 TU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Land Registry and Cadastre Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 9, 2008  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7537 TU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 9, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred thirty-five million Euro 
(EUR 135,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
- 2 -
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through TKGM in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 
- 3 -
4.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
- 4 -
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Undersecretary of Treasury.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Basbakanlik 
Hazine Mustesarligi 
Inonu Bulvari 
Emek – Ankara 
Republic of Turkey 
 
Facsimile: 
(312) 212-8550 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By: /s/ Memduh Aslan Akçay 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
land registry and cadastre services through: (i) renovating and updating cadastre maps to 
support digital cadastre and land registry information; (ii) making the digital land registry 
and cadastre information available to public and private entities; (iii) improving customer 
services in land registry and cadastre offices; (iv) improving human resources in TKGM; 
and (v) developing policies and capacity to introduce best international practices in 
property valuation in Turkey. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Cadastre and Land Registry Renovation and Updating
1. 
Updating and modernization of the real property cadastre and registry 
information and systems into an accurate, consistent with site specific requirements, 
legally valid and maintained digital cadastre system to be a basis for spatial information 
systems. 
 
2. 
Development of new rectified orthophoto maps, production of vector maps and 
digital data in selected areas. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance for cadastre renovation supervision, quality 
control and establishment of spatial data infrastructure. 
 
Part B: Improved Service Delivery
1. 
Implementation of the integrated (land registry and cadastre) version of TAKBIS. 
 
2. 
Design of model office layouts for Cadastre Offices in selected regions to 
improve service delivery utilizing both integrated workflows and the integrated version 
of TAKBIS; renovation or construction of selected Cadastre Offices and provision of 
furniture and equipment; and carrying out policy studies to improve efficiency of the 
registration system, tenure security and promote development of efficient land and 
property markets. 
 
3. 
Establishment and operation of a TAKBIS information dissemination service 
including an up-to-date web-based version of the cadastre, a web-based registration and 
cadastre transaction status report and cadastre layer supply and update service for 
Geographic Information System (GIS) users. 
 
- 6 -
Part C: Human Resources and Institutional Development
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to TKGM to develop a human resources 
strategy to support the effective functioning of the organization in the e-government 
environment. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to TKGM to develop strategic and business 
plans. 
 
3. 
Provision of training to TKGM staff and establishment of regional training 
centers of TKGM. 
 
Part D: Property Valuation
1. 
Development of policy and institutional options for property valuation function 
in the Republic of Turkey consistent with the European practices. 
 
2. 
Development of guidelines and piloting of mass property valuation for local 
property taxation in two selected municipalities. 
 
3. 
Provision of training for the development of core capacities for property 
valuation within TKGM and other central government agencies and in the municipal 
governments, carrying out seminars and workshops, and postgraduate training of selected 
individuals from government and stakeholder agencies and selected universities. 
 
Part E: Project Management
Provision of support to TKGM for Project management, including conducting 
customer’s surveys. 
 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall assign the overall responsibility for Project implementation 
to TKGM, which shall maintain during Project execution, a project coordination team 
with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
Not later than December 31, 2008, TKGM shall complete its strategic plan, 
including a human resources development plan. 
3. 
Not later than June 30, 2009, the Borrower shall cause TKGM to develop a 
policy on data sharing and data pricing in the context of the NSDI and e-government.  
4. 
The Borrower shall implement Project activities in accordance with the EMP and 
shall include adequate information on the carrying out of the EMP in the progress reports 
referred to in paragraph A.1 of Section II of this Schedule.  
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines issued by the Bank on October 15, 2006, 
which are applicable to all IBRD loans and IDA credits and grants. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than March 30, 2014.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 15, 2011, a report  (Mid-Term Report), on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and (b) review with the Bank (Mid-Term Review), by 
April 15, 2011, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-
- 8 -
paragraph (a) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through TKGM, shall have Financial Statements for the Project 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Technical Services and Works.   All goods, technical services and 
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
- 9 -
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Technical Services and 
Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, technical services and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.   
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Technical Services and Works.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, technical services and works.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule 2 
(b)  
Shopping 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  
Least-Cost Selection 
(c)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  
Single-Source Selection 
(e)  
Individual Consultants 
 
- 10 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  
Works  
8,830,000 
100% 
(2)  
Goods 
450, 000 
100% 
(3)   
Technical Services 
114,890,000 
100% 
(4)  
Consultants’ Services  
 
8,220,000 
100% 
(5)  
Training and Workshops 
770,000 
100% 
(6)  
Operating Costs 
 
390,000 
100% 
(7) 
Interest Rate Cap or 
 
Collar Premium 
0
Amounts payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
(8) 
Unallocated 
1,450,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
135,000,000
- 11 -
For the purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “training” means: (i) the fees of consultants, including 
educational or other institutions and organizations, that provide training services; and (ii) 
the cost of study visits and workshops, and related expenditures;  
 
(b) 
the term “technical services” means cadastre renovations, orthophoto 
maps, base mapping, registry, updating and digitalization services; and 
 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means incremental expenses incurred by the 
Borrower on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
transportation of TKGM staff and consultants related to Project monitoring and 
supervision, leasing of vehicles and other related costs.  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawals shall be 
made from the Loan Account: 
 
(a) 
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; and  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
 
- 12 -
ANNEX 
 TO 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts 
Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
The Borrower shall use the Bank’s Europe and Central Asia Region National 
Competitive Bidding documents template for works and goods and apply the following 
provisions in the carrying out of National Competitive Bidding procedures under the 
Project: 
 
A. 
Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders.  No restriction shall be 
applied to foreign bidders who wish to submit a bid. 
 
B. 
Procedures
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Official Gazette and in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper or in an electronic portal of free access 
allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
 
C. 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
In the procurement of goods, technical services and works, where pre-
qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award 
of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, 
technical and financial requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding 
documents and which shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through use of a 
merit point system. 
 
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Turkey shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
 
- 13 -
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint 
venture partners will be jointly and severally liable under the Contract. 
 
F. 
Bidding Documents
Procuring entities shall use the Bank’s sample National Competitive Bidding 
documents for Europe and Central Asia Region for works and goods and shall draft 
contract and conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank. 
 
G. 
Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point system shall not 
be used. 
 
(b) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be requested without the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
 
(c) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and have met the post-qualification 
requirements. 
 
(d) 
No domestic preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 
H.   
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e. more than eighteen (18) months) shall 
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
I. 
Rejection of All Bids
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
written concurrence. 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 
and August 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last 
installment to be payable on the forty-seventh (47th) Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one 
shall be equal to one-thirty seventh (1/37th) of the Disbursed Amount.  The last 
installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.  
 
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after 
February 15, 2037, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all 
such installments. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
- 15 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan for Project, dated 
December 9, 2007, and approved by the Bank, describing the environmental 
issues, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for Project 
implementation. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
6. 
“NSDI” means National Spatial Data Infrastructure. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 17, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
9. 
“TAKBIS” means Turkish Computerized Cadastre and Land Registration 
System. 
10. 
“TKGM” means General Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre under the 
Borrower’s 
Ministry 
of 
Public 
Works 
and 
Settlement. 
 
