CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7656-EG 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Egypt National Railways Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 2, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 2, 2009, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred seventy million United 
States dollars (US$270,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“the Loan”), to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“the Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay itself the amount of said fee. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at 
a rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
The Egyptian National Railways is designated as the representative of the 
Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article II of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.09. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the 
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect of the Loan. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Borrower represents that it has complied with its constitutional procedures 
and that all these shall have been completed by the Effective Date. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Project Implementing 
Entity. 
 
4.03. 
The Additional Legal Matter is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
4.04. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement, or such later date established by the Bank in 
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the Assistant to 
the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8 Adly Street, 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
(202) 2391-5167 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
4
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By: /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the reliability, 
efficiency and safety of the railways’ services through signaling and track renewal 
investments by the Project Implementing Entity and the modernization of its management 
and operating practices in order to enhance the railways’ sector responsiveness to 
economic and social needs and to strengthen the financial viability of the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Signaling Modernization
1. 
Modernizing the signaling system along the Arab El Raml - Alexandria line 
consisting of: (a) an automatic block signaling system (on an open line); (b) electronic 
interlocking systems (in stations); and (c) a level-crossing protection system, through the 
carrying out of works, and provision of consultants’ services for supervisory engineering 
and goods. 
 
2. 
Installation of a computerized central traffic control system, through the 
provision of consultants’ services for supervisory engineering and goods. 
 
Part B Track Renewal
Renewal of 200 km of track along the Cairo-Aswan line (149 km on four sections 
of track) and the Benha-Port Said line (51 km on two sections of track), through the 
carrying out of works, and provision of consultants’ services for supervisory engineering 
and goods. 
 
Part C Modernization of Management and Operating Practices
Supporting the development and delivery of: (a) an intensive management 
training program for mid- and upper-level of the Project Implementing Entity’s 
management and relevant officials from the Ministry of Transport; (b) a technical training 
program and curricula at the new railway academy (Wardan Institute); and (c) market 
research for the development of the freight business, demand and usage analysis of key 
passenger lines, and analysis of means to increase the revenues from the Project 
Implementing Entity’s property, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, and, to 
this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of the Project Implementing Entity therein set forth; take or cause to 
be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project Implementing Entity to 
perform such obligations; not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; and implement the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Transport, establish by no later than 
September 1, 2009, and thereafter maintain a Steering Committee, with 
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Steering 
Committee shall, inter alia, have responsibility for Project oversight and 
coordination. 
 
B. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary loan 
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the 
following: (i) repayment of principal, and payment of interest, charges and 
premium in accordance with Article II of this Agreement and Article III of the 
General Conditions; (ii) payment of any other charges which may be required by 
the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Project 
Implementing Entity (“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and 
7
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants, dated October 15, 2006. 
C. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that 
remedial measures are taken during the implementation and operation of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in the ESIA and the EMP. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Implementing Entity, maintain or cause 
to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Implementing Entity, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial 
Statements and the financial statements reflecting the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project audited by the Borrower’s Central Auditing 
Organization in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity (or such other period proposed by 
the Project Implementing Entity and agreed to by the Bank).  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period. 
 
8
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
International Competitive Bidding. Goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may, through the Project Implementing Entity, withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
General Conditions, this Section, and such additional arrangements as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
arrangements), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
9
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods under Parts A.1 
and A.2 of the Project 
 
197,000,000 
 
100% 
(2) Works under Part B of 
the Project 
 
60,000,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
675,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(4) Premia for Interest 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement 
(5) Unallocated 
 
12,325,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
270,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2015. 
 
10
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 15 and 
August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2014 
through August 15, 2038 
 
2% 
 
On February 15, 2039 
 
2% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
11
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
12
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” or “ESIA” means the Project 
Implementing Entity’s environmental and social impact assessment report 
furnished to the Bank on October 7, 2008 assessing the environment and social 
impacts of the Project. 
 
3. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Project Implementing 
Entity’s environmental management plan for the Project furnished to the Bank on 
October 7, 2008, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the 
Project to offset or reduce potential adverse environmental impacts to levels 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
5. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any 
successor thereof. 
 
6. 
“Ministry of Transport” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, and any 
successor thereof. 
 
7. 
“PMU” means the Project management unit to be maintained in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph A.1 under Section I in the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated December 17, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
13
10. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Egyptian National Railways 
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 266 of 1956, and Law No. 152 of 
1980. 
 
12. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means Law No. 266 of 1956, and 
Law No. 152 of 1980. 
 
13. 
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee to be established and 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
14
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(c) 
The definition of the term “Variable Rate” is modified, in relevant part, 
to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance that accrues interest at a variable 
rate during the Conversion Period, the variable rate of interest applicable 
to such amount shall be equal to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR,  or 
such other base rate as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, for 
the Approved Currency; plus (B) the spread to LIBOR or to such other 
base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge 
Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the interest 
rate component of the Screen Rate.” 
 
