 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7701-PE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Water Resources Management Modernization Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 3, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 3, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF PERU 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ten million Dollars ($10,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
The Borrower’s Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s Director of 
Public Indebtedness, or any person whom any of them shall designate in writing 
is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article II of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause ANA (the “Project Implementing Entity”), through 
the PIU, to carry out the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of ANA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
- 3 - 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on January 3, 2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided 
that the Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, 
represent the Borrower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are 
considered of an administrative and non-financial nature.  The signing by such 
Director of an amendment shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that 
any such amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in 
nature.  
   
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile:   
(511) 626-9921 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Luis Carranza Ugarte 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the management of water resources 
through the strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity for participatory, integrated, basin-
scale water resources management (WRM) at the Borrower’s national level and in 
Selected River Basins. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Improving WRM Capacity at the National Level 
 
A. 
(i) Strengthening ANA’s capacity through the provision of technical assistance, 
the financing of equipment and the hiring of consultants, including, inter alia: 
(A) a general Project coordinator; (B) a coordinator for the water information 
system and hydro-meteorological data systems; (C) a coordinator of the Cultura 
de Agua Program; (D) a coordinator of participatory water resources 
management planning; (E) an administration specialist; (F) a monitoring and 
evaluation specialist, (G) a procurement officer; (H) a disbursement officer and 
(I) an accountant; (ii) carrying out of a study for financing WRM functions at the 
national and river basin levels; and (iii) carrying out of Project audits. 
 
B. 
Establishing the national water information system through the provision of 
technical assistance, training, equipment and software, through: (i) the design of 
the system; (ii) the establishment of ANA and ALAs nodes; and (iii) the 
strengthening of SENAMHI nodes. 
 
C. 
Formulation of a national strategy for water quality management. 
 
D. 
Carrying out of activities aimed at promoting the Cultura del Agua Program, 
including, inter alia:  
 
(i)  
the design and implementation of an awareness program targeting the 
general public in up to ten river basins of the Borrower’s coastal area;  
 
(ii) 
capacity building of decision makers in WRM in up to ten river basins of 
the Borrower’s coastal area, including the carrying out of study tours; 
 
(iii)  
capacity building of water professionals, including, inter alia: (a) 
carrying out an independent needs assessment of the ANA’s 
requirements to be able to deliver WRM in a high quality way and a skill 
inventory to identify the gaps between needs and skills availability; and 
(b) the formulation and implementation of a capacity building program to 
fill these gaps, including the carrying out of study tours. 
- 6 - 
Part 2. Improving WRM in Selected River Basins 
 
A. 
Carrying out of the following activities in the Pilot River Basins: 
 
(i)  
Adaptation of the institutional organization, composition and functions 
of the AAAs, ALAs and CCs in each Pilot River Basin based on the local 
context, including coordination and accountability mechanisms among 
these entities and other stakeholders. 
 
(ii) 
Development of operational management instruments for ALAs and 
CCs.   
 
(iii)  
Setting-up of a local core team in each of the AAAs and ALAs. 
  
(iv) 
Carrying out a study for financing WRM functions in the Pilot River 
Basins. 
 
(v)  
Development and improvement of WRM plans and hydrological and 
decision making models.   
 
(vi) 
Development of operation and maintenance plans for major hydraulic 
infrastructure. 
 
(vii)  
Provision of technical assistance to: (a) update agricultural water rights; 
(b) formalize non-agricultural water rights; and (c) develop procedures 
for monitoring water users’ compliance and enforcing the terms and 
conditions of water rights entitlement.     
 
(viii)  (a) Upgrading of the meteorological and hydrological observation 
networks and data transmission systems; and (b) strengthening the 
capacity of SENAMHI’s regional offices.   
 
(ix) 
Development of a water quality management program for the Chili river 
basin and discharge monitoring programs for Chili and Chancay-
Lambayeque river basins. 
 
(x) 
Provision of training, technical assistance and goods to promote the 
Cultura del Agua Program including, inter alia: (i) the introduction of 
courses promoting the Cultura del Agua Program in the standard 
curriculum of primary and secondary schools; (ii) the production and 
distribution of didactic materials; and (iii) the training of teachers. 
 
(xi) 
Carrying out of works and provision of goods for small emergency 
maintenance, repair or replacement interventions on small hydraulic 
works and equipment. 
- 7 - 
B. 
Discussion, improvement and validation of preliminary diagnostics and water 
management plans with key water stakeholders in four of the Selected River 
Basins. 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A.  
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, not later than 30 days after the Effective Date, create and 
thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, a Project Steering Committee 
to oversee the implementation of the Project and approve annual operational 
plans. Said committee shall have membership and functions detailed in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall promptly transfer the proceeds of the Loan to ANA through 
its budgetary mechanisms. 
 
3. 
Not later than 60 days after the signing of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
create a project implementation unit (“PIU”), with administrative, financial and 
budgetary autonomy. 
 
B. 
Implementation Agreements 
 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
MINEDU Agreement and the SENAMHI Agreement, in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the MINEDU Agreement, the 
SENAMHI Agreement or any of their provisions. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2015. 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  The Borrower may, 
or may cause ANA through its PIU to, hire the auditors to carry out the audits of 
two or more fiscal years through a single contract. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works (including non-consultant services) 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works (Including Non-
Consultant Services) 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works (including non-consultant services) shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding 
procedures. 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works (including Non-
Consultant Services).  The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods and works (including non-consultant services).  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth 
in Part E of this Section III 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b) Selection based on the Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(c) Single Source Selection 
 
(d) Least-Cost Selection 
 
(e) Fixed Budget Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
 
- 11 - 
E. 
Special Provisions 
 
1. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern the procurement of goods, works and non-consultants’ services with 
National Competitive Bidding procedures under this Section: 
 
(a) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
 
(b) 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(c) 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed 
in the invitation to bid.  
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
bidding documents or any documentation related to such bidding 
documents with either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents and standard 
evaluation formats, all satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern all employment of consultants: 
(a) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process. 
(b) 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) any 
documentation related to their participation in the selection process with 
either Peruvian Consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any 
Peruvian authorities as a condition of participation in said selection 
process. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall use standard requests for proposals and standard 
evaluation formats; all satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d) 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to 
pay fees to the Peruvian Consultants’ Association that are different from 
those required for Peruvian consultants. 
- 12 - 
(e) 
No consultant hired for the Project, at the time he or she is carrying out 
his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office 
or any other position in any agency of the Borrower, nor shall such 
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position 
upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1)  Works, goods, consultants’ 
 
services, Training and 
 
Operating Costs for the 
 
Project except those 
 
included in Category (2) 
 
below 
 
 
 
8,000,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
services, Training and 
 
Operating Costs for the 
 
Project under Part 1.B(iii) 
 
and 2.A (viii) of the Project 
 
 
2,000,000 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
10,000,000 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
3. 
For the purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(i) 
“Operating Costs” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
ANA in connection with the daily operation of the Project, including, 
rental and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, rental of office 
facilities, office utilities, supplies and materials, domestic travel and per 
diem of ANA staff, and laboratory services, which expenditures would 
not have been incurred absent the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
“Training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by ANA and 
SENAMHI in connection with training activities, workshops and study 
tours under the Project, including the rental of facilities, refreshments, 
training materials and international and domestic travel, lodging and per 
diem of trainers and trainees. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made within a year prior to this 
date but in any case on or after April 2, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures 
under Category (1) above; or 
 
(c) 
for payments under Category (2) above, until the Bank has received the 
signed SENAMHI Agreement.    
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 
- 14 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
January 15, 2027 
100% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
- 15 - 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
- 16 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“AAA” means Autoridad Administrativa del Agua, a Borrower’s River Basin 
Water Authority, to be created pursuant to the Borrower’s Water Law (as defined 
below). 
2. 
“ALA” means Administración Local de Agua, a Borrower’s local water 
administration, to be created pursuant to the Borrower’s Water Law (as defined 
below). 
3. 
“ANA” or “Project Implementing Entity” means Autoridad Nacional del Agua, 
the Borrower’s National Water Authority, created pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Law No. 997, dated March 13, 2008, and its successor or successors thereto. 
4. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“CC” means a Consejo de Cuenca, a Borrower’s River Basin Council, to be 
created pursuant to the Borrower’s Water Law (as defined below). 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
8. 
“Cultura del Agua Program” means Programa de Desarrollo de la Cultura del 
Agua, mentioned in Article 88 of the Water Resources Law. 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the document prepared by the 
Borrower, dated October 15, 2008, which sets out the environmental protection 
measures in respect of the Project, including: (i) an environmental screening 
checklist for Project interventions; (ii) environmental supervision, monitoring 
and evaluation procedures for the Project; and (iii) measures to be taken to 
minimize the risk of negative impacts of the structural investments carried out by 
the Project. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
- 17 - 
 
11. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the document prepared by the 
Borrower, dated January 30, 2009, which sets out the types of subprojects and its 
potential positive and adverse effects on indigenous peoples and it identifies the 
social assessments needed to ensure free, prior and informed consultations with 
indigenous peoples at each stage of the Project cycle. 
 
12. 
“MINEDU” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education. 
 
13. 
“MINEDU Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, dated March 24, 2009, referred to in 
Section I.D1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, to be approved initially 
through a Resolución Jefatural from ANA. 
 
15. 
“Pilot River Basins” means the river basins of Chancay-Lambayeque, Ica-Alto 
Pampas (Huancavelica), Chili or any other basin as agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank. 
 
16. 
“PIU” means the project implementation unit referred to in Section I.A.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 11, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and ANA relating to the implementation of all or part of the Project, as 
such agreement may be amended from time to time.  
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means collectively: (i) the 
Borrower’s Law No. 997, dated March 13, 2008; (ii) the Borrower’s Water 
Resources Law; (iii) the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 039-2008-AG, dated 
December 21, 2008. 
 
21. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
- 18 - 
 
22. 
“Resettlement” means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the 
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently. 
 
23. 
“Selected River Basins” means the river basins of Chancay-Lambayeque, Ica-
Alto Pampas (Huancavelica), Chili, Puyango-Tumbes, Jequetepeque, Chancay-
Huaral, Moquegua-Tambo or any other basin as agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank. 
 
24. 
“SENAMHI” means Servicio Nacional de Meteorología e Hidrología, the 
Borrower’s Meteorological and Hydrological National Service. 
 
25. 
“SENAMHI Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.2 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Water Resources Law” means the Borrower’s Law No. 29338, dated March 30, 
2009 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on March 31, 2009. 
 
27. 
“WRM” means water resources management. 
 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
- 19 - 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or ANA ineligible to receive proceeds of any 
financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to participate in the 
preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the 
Bank or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or ANA has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any 
financing made by the Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 
 
 
 
