 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7681 KZ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(South West Roads Project: Western Europe- Western China International Transit 
Corridor (CAREC 1b & 6b)) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated June 13, 2009  
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7681 KZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated June 13, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two billion one hundred twenty-five 
million Dollars ($2,125,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoTC in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a)  
The MoTC has entered into an agreement, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, with the PMC for the purposes of carrying out 
activities under the Project. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower, through MoTC, has adopted the GAC Action Plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
 
- 3 - 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
date of  this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
11 Pobedy Street 
Astana 010000 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
265126 (FILIN)  
7- 7172-717785 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
  and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
- 4 - 
AGREED at Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Bolat Zhamishev 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Shigeo Katsu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase transport efficiency along road sections 
from the Kyzylorda and Aktobe Oblast border to Shymkent, and to improve road 
management and traffic safety. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Upgrade and reconstruction of road sections within Kyzylorda Oblast  
 
Provision of works to support the upgrade and reconstruction of road sections 
within Kyzylorda Oblast, and excluding the bypass to Kyzylorda. 
 
Part 2: Upgrade and reconstruction of road sections within South Kazakhstan Oblast 
 
Provision of works to support the upgrade and reconstruction of road sections 
within South Kazakhstan Oblast, including the bypass to Kyzylorda. 
 
Part 3: Project Management Consultants 
 
Provision of consulting services to assist the MoTC with implementation of the 
Project. 
 
Part 4: Institutional Development and Improvement of Road Safety and Road Services 
 
(a)  
Provision of consulting services for studies to: (i) review options for 
strengthening road management and improving the condition of roads; (ii) train staff on 
the Committee for Roads to enhance capacity in managing projects; (iii) implement a 
road management system; (iv) improve oversight of environmental protection; (v) 
prepare a road safety design manual; (vi) carry out a physical road safety audit of roads; 
(vii) establish methodologies for identification of accident black spots; (viii) estimate the 
social cost of accidents; (ix) strengthen road accident research by MoTC institutions; and 
(x) prepare an action plan for the development of the services along the Project road 
sections. 
 
(b)  
Provision of goods and equipment for the road management system. 
 
Part 5: Supervision of Civil Works 
 
Provision of consulting services to supervise civil works under Part 1 and Part 2 
of the Project. 
 
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements   
 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the following 
institutional and other arrangements: 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MoTC, with the assistance of the PMC shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and 
operational procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual, the GAC Action Plan, 
the Resettlement Policy Framework and the EIA, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any provisions of the Project Operational Manual, the GAC Action Plan, the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, or the EIA without prior approval of the Bank.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MoTC: 
 
(a)  
shall prepare, prior to the commencement of any works under the 
Project, Resettlement Actions Plans, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the 
Resettlement Policy Framework;  
 
(b) 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the respective Resettlement 
Actions Plans; and 
 
(c) shall not amend, suspend or abrogate any of the provisions of the respective 
Resettlement Action Plans without the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MoTC: 
 
(a)  
shall prepare, prior to the commencement of any works under the 
Project, Environmental Management Plans, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with 
the EIA;  
 
 
(b) 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the respective 
Environmental Management Plans; and 
 
(c)  
shall not amend, suspend or abrogate any of the provisions of the 
respective Environmental Management Plans without the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
4. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure 
that the PMC is maintained with a composition, resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
- 7 - 
5. 
The Borrower, through the MoTC, shall: (i) take all necessary measures, 
including ensuring access to all relevant information related to the Project, to facilitate an 
independent procurement audit; and (ii) act promptly upon the findings and 
recommendations of such audit under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
B.  
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
Not later than December 31, 2010, and annually thereafter, the Borrower, 
through the MoTC, shall carry out jointly with the Bank, annual reviews of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Annual Reviews).  The 
Annual Reviews shall cover, amongst other things: 
 
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MoTC, shall prepare at least four (4) weeks prior to 
the Annual Reviews, and furnish to the Bank, a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
 
- 8 - 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth in the 
Attachment to this Schedule 2 
(b)  
Shopping 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
 
- 9 - 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  
Least Cost Selection  
(d)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
(e)  
Single-source Selection 
(f)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General  
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
 
- 10 - 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 (inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works under Part 1 of the 
Project 
1,134,300,000 
85% 
(2) Works under Part 2 of the 
Project 
747,200,000 
85% 
(3) Consultants’ Services under 
Part 3 of the Project 
5,500,000 
85% 
(4) Consultants’ Services under 
Part 4 of the Project 
2,100,000 
85% 
(5) Consultants’ Services under 
Part 5 of the Project 
46,800,000 
85% 
(6) Goods under Part 4 of the 
Project 
900,000 
85% 
(7) Unallocated 
188,200,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
2,125,000,000 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a)   
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee;  
 
(b)  
for expenditures under Category (2) until the Borrower has carried out a 
study that reviews options for strengthening the Committee for Roads and improving the 
overall condition of the road network, and has agreed with the Bank on a framework of 
actions to strengthen the Committee for Roads and improve the overall condition of the 
republican road network, taking into account the outcomes of the study; and 
 
(c)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
- 11 - 
Attachment  
to   
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding procedures of the Borrower may be used for 
procurement of goods and works under the Project provided that the following provisions 
are complied with: 
 
A. 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises 
 
Government-owned enterprises on the territory of the Borrower shall be eligible 
to participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
 
B. 
Bidding Documents 
 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods and works acceptable to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
 
(a) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents; 
 
(c) 
domestic preference should not be applied; and 
 
(d) 
contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall 
take place. 
 
D. 
Price Adjustment 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than eighteen (18) months) shall 
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. Civil works contracts that are not of long 
duration (eighteen (18) months or less) shall not require an appropriate price adjustment 
clause. 
 
 
- 12 - 
E. 
Cancellation of the Bidding Process 
 
Non-recognition of a tender and soliciting new bids can be done only with the 
prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
F. 
Rejection of an Individual Bid 
 
An individual bid shall be rejected only in the following cases: 
 
(a) 
the bidder is not qualified; 
 
(b) 
the bidder does not accept the correction of an arithmetical error in his 
bid by the Tender Commission of the procuring entity; and 
 
(c) 
the bidder is not responsive to the requirements of the bidding 
documents. 
 
 
- 13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
beginning  May 15, 2014  
 
through November 15, 2033 
 
 
 
2.5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
 
- 14 - 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
 “Committee for Roads” means the road management agency established under 
the MoTC on January 1, 2008 by Governmental Resolution Number 1193, "On 
several issues regarding the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan", dated December 6, 2007, and responsible for the 
republican road network, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” or “EIA” means the final Environmental 
Assessment Report prepared and disclosed by the Borrower, dated February 26, 
2009, and satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of, inter alia: (i) a detailed 
description of the sites where the Project activities are to be carried out; (ii) the 
potential and actual adverse environmental impacts of the activities referred to 
under paragraph (i) above; and (iii) site-specific EMPs setting out measures to be 
taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to mitigate, 
eliminate or otherwise offset adverse environmental impacts under the Project. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plans” or “EMPs” means the site-specific 
documents, adopted by the Borrower, and satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to 
the EIA, and pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, in respect of works to be undertaken by the Borrower under the 
Project defining details of measures to manage potential environmental risks and 
mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse environmental impacts associated with the 
implementation of activities under the Project, together with adequate 
institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper 
implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, as the 
same may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
written approval; and “EMP” refers to one such EMP. 
 
7. 
“GAC Action Plan” means the Governance and Anti-Corruption Action Plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank and to be adopted by the Borrower, through the MoTC, 
pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, to enhance financial management 
 
- 16 - 
controls and the transparency and integrity of procurement procedures for the 
Project. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
9. 
“MoTC” means the Ministry of Transport and Communication of the Borrower 
or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
10. 
“PMC” means the Project Management Consultant, a legal entity, acceptable to 
the Bank, and referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, to provide 
consultants’ services to assist the MoTC with the management and 
implementation of the Project. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 30, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual, adopted by the Borrower, 
through the MoTC, March 17, 2009, and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth 
the operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the 
implementation of the Project, including a manual of financial procedures, 
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the national laws and 
regulations of the Borrower, as the same may be amended and supplemented 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval. 
 
14. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means the site-specific documents, including any 
abbreviated resettlement plans, adopted by the Borrower,  pursuant to paragraph 
2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,, and satisfactory to the Bank, 
containing, inter alia, a program of actions, measures and policies for 
compensation and resettlement of persons, including  compensation and 
resettlement arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, 
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements 
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on compliance 
with its terms for each site; and “Resettlement Action Plan” means one such plan. 
 
15. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the document prepared and endorsed 
by the Borrower and disclosed May 1, 2008, updated and disclosed by the 
Borrower on March 18, 2009 and through Infoshop on March 25, 2009, setting 
 
- 17 - 
forth resettlement procedures, institutional arrangements, eligibility criteria, 
entitlements and compensation, including valuation procedures, public 
consultation and participation, monitoring and evaluation and disclosure criteria 
to be applied in preparing a Resettlement Action Plan. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end 
Fee and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the 
Association (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such 
Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective 
Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan 
Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the 
advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn to 
itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing 
Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank 
or the Association or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank 
or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
3. 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
 
- 18 - 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Variable Rate” is modified, in relevant part, 
to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance that accrues interest at a variable 
rate during the Conversion Period, the variable rate of interest applicable 
to such amount shall be equal to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR,  or 
such other base rate as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, for 
the Approved Currency; plus (B) the spread to LIBOR or to such other 
base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge 
Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the interest 
rate component of the Screen Rate.” 
 
