CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7693-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Guizhou Cultural and Natural Heritage 
 Protection and Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 26, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 26, 2009, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, 
the provisions of the Operation Manual for Community Participation and the 
Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV – TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/  Zheng Xiaosong  
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
4
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/  David Dollar    
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Guizhou Province in increasing economic 
benefits to local communities (including, minority groups) through increased tourism and 
better protection of cultural and natural heritages. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1. Ethnic Minority Cultural Heritage Protection 
 
Increasing employment and incomes of residents of selected minority villages 
and towns in Qiandongnan and Qianxinan Prefectures and improving their basic 
living conditions, with special attention to the protection of their cultural 
heritage, through the carrying out of the following:  
 
(a) 
construction of small scale infrastructure facilities to serve the villages 
and towns;  
 
(b) 
rehabilitation and conservation of unique historic buildings and 
construction or establishment of cultural and visitor centers;  
 
(c) 
rehabilitation and conservation of traditional private houses through a 
grant program;  and 
 
(d) 
carrying out of income generation activities that preserve and protect 
intangible cultural heritage through a grant program for provision of 
technical assistance, training and goods. 
Part 2. Natural Heritage and Scenic Site Protection and Development 
 
Carrying out of physical investments to improve infrastructure and tourism 
facilities in: (a) Guanling National Geo-Park in Anshun Municipality;  
(b) Dingxiao National Geo-Park in Qianxinan Prefecture; (c) Wanfenglin 
National Scenic Park in Qianxinan Prefecture; and (d) Shanmu River Scenic Park 
in Qiandongnan Prefecture including, construction and/or rehabilitation of 
pedestrian roads, public toilets, water supply and sanitation facilities, signage, 
and tourist service centers, and implementation of measures for environmental 
and ecological protection of such parks.   
6
Part 3.  Tourism Gateway Town Facilities Development 
 
(a) 
Construction of tourist information centers in selected counties in Qiandongnan 
Prefecture and provision of goods, technical assistance and training to strengthen 
institutional capacity, at the county level, for the promotion of tourism.  
 
(b) 
Construction of Guizhou Cultural and Natural Heritage Protection and 
Development Center in Guiyang Municipality, which center will carry out 
research on natural heritage and tangible cultural heritage; host performances and 
lectures; provide tourist information and services; develop and deliver training in 
rural tourism development and management and cultural awareness and 
conservation; and develop a tourist destination management website for tourist 
sites information and marketing. 
 
Part 4.  Capacity Building and Project Implementation Support 
 
(a) 
Strengthening of institutional capacity and capability: (i) at the provincial level to 
manage, implement and monitor Project activities; and (ii) at the village level, for 
conservation of traditional buildings and for facilitating community organization 
and village-level activities especially in the grant programs for traditional private 
house rehabilitation and conservation and intangible heritage preservation, all 
through the provision of technical assistance and training.    
 
(b) 
Strengthening of capacity and capability in the tourism sector: (i) at the county 
level through provision of goods and technical assistance to the project 
management offices; and (ii) at the provincial and local levels through provision 
of training for staff of the PPMO, CPMOs, PIUs and provincial and local 
government tourism administrative units.  
 
(c) 
(i) Reviewing and updating of the Guizhou Tourism Development Master Plan to 
align its strategies to current circumstances including, improved access of 
tourism sites to highways; and (ii) development of design guidelines for the 
conservation of traditional buildings and traditional environments in minority 
villages. 
 
Part 5. Resettlement  
 
Carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection 
with the implementation of Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall be 
recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of 
five (5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate, the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
February 15 and August 15 each year.  
 
8
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank as part of 
the Project Report by not later than February 15 and August 15 each year, interim 
un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the preceding calendar 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
9
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding 
of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with 
the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that 
are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. 
Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding 
documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders 
between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified 
in detail in the bidding documents. 
 
10
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the 
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there 
shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient 
to 
protect 
the 
Borrower 
or 
the 
Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of 
contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall 
specify the required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall 
not be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in 
the form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose 
bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to 
the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated 
cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition 
of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as 
originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
11
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country 
may be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and 
works if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; 
and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting 
the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or 
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank’s prior 
written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as 
provided under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  
a free and open access website and shall identify the name 
and offered price of the winning bidder, as well as the 
duration and summary scope of the awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have in place 
provisions for bidders to protest. 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c)     
Community Participation procedures set forth in the Operation Manual 
for Community Participation  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
12
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) 
Single-source Selection 
(c) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
13
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Civil works  
51,068,000 
90% 
(2) Goods 
759,000 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services, 
training and study tours 
3,500,000 
100% 
(4)  Block Grants  
4,373,000 
100% 
(5)  Incremental Operating Cost 
150,000 
100% 
(6)  Front-end Fee 
150,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the 
Loan Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(7)  Premium for Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
60,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 may be made 
for payments made prior to this date but on or after December 1, 2008, for 
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3).  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 
14
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2015  
 
through October 15, 2038 
 
2.04% 
On April 15, 2039 
 
2.08% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
15
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
16
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Block Grants” means, collectively, Private House Grants and Intangible 
Cultural Heritage Grants that are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section IV, paragraph 5 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
The acronym “CPMG” means the community project management group to be 
established pursuant to the provision in Section IV, paragraph 2 of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, and any successors thereto.  
 
6. 
The acronym “CPMO” means the project management office established within 
the tourism bureau of each Project Participant and county concerned and to be 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section I, paragraph 1(b)(ii) of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any successors thereto.  
 
7. 
“Cultural Heritage Conservation Plan” means the plan set forth in Chapter 7 of 
the Environmental Impact Assessment for the Project, dated September 18, 2008, 
prepared on behalf of and adopted by Guizhou Province, for the protection of 
cultural resources in Project areas. 
 
8. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Environmental Management Plan 
dated September 18, 2008, prepared on behalf of and adopted by Guizhou 
17
 
Province, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the 
Project, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank.  
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
11. 
The acronym “GNU” refers to the Guizhou Normal University which was 
founded in 1941 and operates under the jurisdiction of the Education Bureau of 
Guizhou Province.   
 
12. 
“Guizhou” means the Borrower’s Province of Guizhou, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
13. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of incremental 
expenditures incurred by members of the PPMO in carrying out the Project 
(which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project) including, 
salaries of contractual staff, travel costs, office consumables, but excluding 
salaries and salary supplements of civil servants. 
 
14. 
“Intangible Cultural Heritage Grant” means, individually, a grant made by 
Guizhou, out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a village pursuant to an Intangible 
Cultural Heritage Implementation Agreement entered into between a CPMO and 
a CPMG in accordance with the provisions of Section IV, paragraph 4 of the 
Schedule to Project Agreement for the carrying out of activities for the protection 
and preservation of intangible cultural heritage under Part 1(d) of the Project; and 
“Intangible Cultural Heritage Grants” means, collectively, all such grants.  
 
15. 
“Operation Manual for Community Participation” and the acronym “OMCP” 
mean the Operation Manual for Community Participation dated March 2009 and 
adopted by Guizhou on March 18, 2009, which manual is referred to in  
Section IV, paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and includes, 
principles and procedures to ensure that local communities and ethnic minorities 
are afforded opportunities to participate in the choice, design, implementation 
and monitoring of Project activities, as well as the identification, interpretation, 
and protection of their heritage assets. 
 
16. 
The acronym “PIU” means the project implementation unit established at each 
Project site and to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I.A, paragraph 1(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and any 
successors thereto. 
 
18
 
17. 
The acronym “PPMO” means the provincial project management office 
established within Guizhou Provincial Tourism Bureau and to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A, paragraph 1(a)(ii) of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, and any successors thereto.  
 
18. 
“Private House Grant” means, individually, a grant made by Guizhou, out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, to a household beneficiary pursuant to a Private House 
Implementation Agreement entered into between a CPMO and a household 
beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of Section IV, paragraph 3 of the 
Schedule to Project Agreement for the rehabilitation and conservation of 
traditional private houses under Part 1(c) of the Project; and “Private House 
Grants” means, collectively, all such grants.  
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 19, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
21. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Guizhou Province and any 
successor thereto. 
 
22. 
“Project 
Participants” 
means, 
collectively: 
(a) Qiandongnan 
Prefecture, 
Qianxinan Prefecture and Anshun Municipality, all in Guizhou Province and any 
other prefecture or municipality selected by agreement among the Borrower, 
Guizhou and the Bank, and the successors thereto; and (b) GNU; and “Project 
Participant” means, individually, any of such Project Participants.  
 
23. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the plan dated September 18, 2008, prepared 
on behalf of and adopted by Guizhou Province, which sets out the principles and 
procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and the 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of 
the carrying out of Project activities, as well as monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
24. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means, the resettlement policy framework 
included as an Annex to the Resettlement Action Plan, which framework sets out 
the policies and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, 
resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the 
preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required during the 
19
 
implementation of the Project, as said framework may be amended from time to 
time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
