CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7694-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Small and Medium Enterprises  
Financing and Development Project) 
 
between 
 
SMALL INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 5, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
June 
5, 
2009, 
between 
SMALL  
INDUSTRIES 
DEVELOPMENT 
BANK 
OF 
INDIA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – DEFINITIONS; GENERAL CONDITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million Dollars 
($400,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and this Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual, the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational 
Manual, or the Social and Environmental Framework shall have been 
amended, abrogated, repealed or otherwise modified so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the 
Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; 
 
3
(b) 
the SIDBI Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project 
or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the Declaration of Trust shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to effect materially and adversely the operation 
or the financial condition of the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the 
Financing Agreement; 
 
(d) 
any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of the Borrower or the Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Company; 
 
(e) 
the Borrower or a PFI shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Participation Agreement; 
 
(f) 
the Borrower or the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company shall have failed 
to perform any of their respective obligations under the Financing 
Agreement; 
 
(g) 
the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company or a Risk Sharing Financial 
Institution shall have failed to perform any of their respective obligations 
under the Guarantee Framework Agreement; and 
 
(h) 
any provision of a Participation Agreement, the Financing Agreement or 
a
Guarantee Framework Agreement shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the operations or the financial condition of a PFI or the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Facility Company, as the case may be, or its ability to carry 
out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under such 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (e), (f), (g), or (h) of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (d) of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V – TERMINATION 
4
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Chairman and Managing Director. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Small Industries Development Bank of India 
SME Development Center 
C-11, G Block 
Bandra-Kurla Complex 
Bandra, Mumbai-400-051 
India 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
LAGHUVIKAS 
(022) 2654 1124 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SMALL INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA 
 
By 
/s/ R. M. Malla 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
 AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
5
By 
/s/ N. Roberto Zagha 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) 
access to finance (including term finance) and business development services, thereby 
fostering SME growth, competitiveness and employment creation. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts: 
 
Part A: Credit Facility  
 
The operation of a credit facility for the purpose of providing Sub-loans by the 
Borrower and/or PFIs to Beneficiary Enterprises. 
 
Part B: Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility 
 
Provision of Financing by the Borrower to the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company 
for the purpose of operating a Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility in order to provide 
partial credit Guarantees to Risk Sharing Financial Institutions in respect of their 
lending to Eligible Enterprises. 
 
Part C:  Policy and Institutional Development Technical Assistance 
 
Implementing a program, through an ongoing parallel technical assistance  
(Co-financing) for policy and institutional development (which program can be 
supplemented with additional funding from other donor agencies) consisting, 
inter alia, of:  (a) strengthening the policy, legal and regulatory framework for 
establishing an efficient environment for SME financing; (b)  improving credit 
information on SMEs; (c) building institutional capacity within the participating 
financial institutions to reduce transactions costs and manage risks related to 
SME lending; (d) strengthening the access of SMEs to business development 
services; and (e) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower for 
implementing and monitoring the Project. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Project Undertakings 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual, the GAAP, and the Social 
and Environmental Framework in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, shall 
duly perform all its obligations under said Manual, GAAP and Framework and 
shall not amend, abrogate or waive the Manual, GAAP, or Framework so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower, PFIs and the Risk 
Sharing Guarantee Company to implement the Project or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain the PMD with adequate powers, functions, staff and resources; 
and  
 
(b) 
maintain the IAD with adequate powers, functions, staff and resources. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of carrying out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
make Sub-loans to Beneficiary Enterprises on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Operational Manual and the Social and Environmental 
Framework including, without limitation, the terms and conditions set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to 
protect its interests and the interests of the Bank, comply with its 
obligations under its respective Sub-loan Agreement and achieve the 
purposes of the Project; 
 
(c) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the 
Bank; 
 
(d) 
select PFIs that meet the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph B.1 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and provide to the Bank a copy of the 
Borrower’s assessment of each selected PFI; 
 
(e) 
relend to the PFIs, selected in accordance with sub-paragraph (a) above, 
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
8
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph A.2 of Section IV of this 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement under Participation Agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each such PFI for the purpose of 
making Sub-loans, in accordance with procedures, and under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall 
include without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(f) 
during the period of Project implementation furnish to the Bank annually 
a certificate in the agreed format showing that each PFI continues to 
meet the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
appraise PFIs and activities to be financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-
loan, and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by the 
Beneficiary Enterprises of said Sub-loan activities in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, the GAAP, and the Social and Environmental 
Framework; 
 
(h) 
(i) 
exchange views with and furnish all such information to the 
Bank as may be reasonably requested by the Bank with regard to 
the progress of its activities under the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under Participation Agreements and Sub-loan 
Agreements, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Project; 
 
(ii) 
prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on 
Subsidiary Loan and Sub-loan disbursements until completion 
of disbursements under Part A of the Project and annual reports 
on repayments with respect to Subsidiary Loans and Sub-loans 
made by the Borrower until the completion of the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities under its 
respective Sub-loan Agreement; 
 
(i) 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition;  
 
(ii) 
furnish the Bank and the Project Review Committee annual 
project financial statements of scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Bank as set out in the Operational Manual; and 
 
9
(iii) 
such information concerning said records and accounts as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;  
 
(j) 
assume the credit risk of each Subsidiary Loan and Sub-loan; 
 
(k) 
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the 
PFIs of their obligations under their respective Participation Agreements 
in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
 
(l) 
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part to 
enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their 
respective Participation Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs 
therein set forth, and not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance; and  
 
(m) 
exercise its rights under the Participation Agreements in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out of Part B of the Project utilizing the proceeds of 
the Loan, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  
make available to the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2) of the 
table set forth in paragraph A.2 of Section IV of this Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement under a Financing Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and such Company for the purpose of operating the Risk 
Sharing Guarantee Facility in order to provide, inter-alia, Guarantees in 
accordance with procedures, and under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include without 
limitation, those set forth in the following clauses of this paragraph; 
 
(b) 
through the Financing Agreement, require the Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Company: 
 
(i) 
to carry out the activities under Part B of the Project and 
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with 
consistently applied appropriate financial standards and 
practices, adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part B of the Project; 
 
10
(ii) 
to open and maintain the Guarantee Reserve Account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank, which account shall be appropriately 
protected against set-off, seizure and attachment; 
 
(iii) 
to deposit the proceeds of the Loan received from the Borrower 
under the Financing Agreement into the Guarantee Reserve 
Account; 
 
(iv) 
to utilize the proceeds of the Loan deposited into the Guarantee 
Reserve Account exclusively for Eligible Investments and 
Payment and other purposes; all in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of this Agreement, the Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Facility Operational Manual and the Financing Agreement; 
 
(v) 
to furnish to the Bank, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, such documents and other evidence showing that the 
proceeds of the Loan received under the Financing Agreement 
were utilized exclusively for Eligible Investments and Payment 
and other purposes in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of this Agreement, the Financing Agreement and the Risk 
Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual; 
 
(vi)  
to enter into Guarantee Framework Agreements with Risk 
Sharing Financial Institutions in accordance with the terms of 
this Agreement including, without limitation, the relevant 
provisions of this paragraph 4 of this Schedule and the terms 
and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(vii) 
during the period of Project implementation furnish to the 
Borrower annually a certificate in the agreed format showing 
that each Risk Sharing Financial Institution continues to meet 
the eligibility criteria set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(viii) 
to provide Guarantees, through Guarantee Certificates, to Risk 
Sharing Financial Institutions on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual 
and the Social and Environmental Framework including, 
without limitation, the relevant provisions of this paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule and the terms and conditions set forth in  
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(ix) 
to appraise prospective participating banks and the loan 
portfolio of Risk Sharing Financial Institutions for the purpose 
of issuing Guarantees and supervise, monitor and report on the 
11
carrying out of Part B of the Project, in accordance with the 
Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual and the 
Social and Environmental Framework; 
 
(x) 
to exchange views with and furnish all such information to the 
Borrower and the Bank, as may be reasonably requested with 
regard to the progress of its activities under Part B of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under the Financing 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Project; 
 
(xi) 
to prepare and submit to the Borrower and the Bank quarterly 
reports on the implementation of Part B of the Project, including 
on the quantum of guarantees provided to Risk Sharing 
Financing Institutions in respect of their portfolio of lending of 
SMEs in different sectors and geographic regions, the size and 
profile of such Institutions and SMEs;  
 
(xii) 
to promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities under 
its respective Sub-loan Agreement; 
 
(xiii) 
(A) 
to cause the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company to 
establish and maintain a financial management system, 
records and accounts and to prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect, its 
operations and financial condition;  
 
(B) 
to have the records and accounts and financial 
statements referred to in sub-paragraph (A) above and 
the records and accounts of the Guarantee Reserve 
Account referred to in paragraph (ii) above for each 
Fiscal Year audited in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and  
 
(C) 
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, certified copies of 
such audit reports not later than six months after the end 
of each Fiscal Year including such information 
concerning said audit records and accounts as the Bank 
or the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably 
request; 
 
(xiv) 
to monitor the overall execution of Part B of the Project;  
12
(xv) 
to exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof; 
 
(xvi) 
to maintain a Management Group with composition, powers, 
function, staff and resources for the purpose of operating and 
managing the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company; and 
 
(xvii) 
to participate in the mid-term review as provided for in the Risk 
Sharing Guarantee Operations Manual,  and other reviews of  the 
Project as so requested by the Bank, and to prepare and provide 
to the Bank promptly all related reports for said reviews in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the certificates received from the Risk 
Sharing Guarantee Company as referred to in paragraph 4(b)(vii) of Section I of 
this Schedule 2.  
 
6. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  
take measures to comply with the eligibility criteria applicable to PFIs as 
set out in Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and  
 
(b) 
provide semi-annual reports to the Bank setting out the progress in 
carrying out the Project including reports on: (i) the quantum of 
financing and guarantees to SMEs in different sectors and geographic 
regions; (ii) the size and profile of such SMEs; and (iii) continued 
compliance by the Borrower and the PFIs with the eligibility criteria 
referred to in clause (a) of this paragraph. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall provide to the Project Review Committee all reports and 
information that are required to be furnished to the Bank under this Agreement 
and that the Borrower receives from the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary 
to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of 
exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used 
in its operations. 
 
9.       The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, 
and other resources required for the Project, and shall take or cause to be taken 
all action necessary or appropriate to enable the PFIs to perform their respective 
obligations under the Participation Agreements and the Sub-loan Agreements, 
13
and to enable the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company to perform its obligations 
under the Financing Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
10.   
(a) 
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part A of the Project, make a portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan available to a PFI under a Participation 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and such PFI under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and which shall include 
those set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Participation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive such Participation Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
 
11.  
(a)  
The Borrower undertakes, and shall cause the PFIs to undertake, as the 
case may be, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will 
be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each PFI to, exercise its rights in 
relation to the activities financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve 
the purposes of the Project. 
 
12. 
(a)  
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B of the Project, make a portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan available to the Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Company under a Financing Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and such Company, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank and which shall include those referred 
to in Schedule 5 of this Agreement.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or 
waive such Financing Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
13. 
(a) 
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, it 
shall cause the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company to: (i) enter into 
Guarantee Framework Agreements; and (ii) issue Guarantees; all in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth 
14
or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Financing Agreement, 
the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual and the 
Memorandum and Articles of Association. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall at all times take all measures necessary on its part to 
ensure that the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company shall exercise its rights 
in relation to each Guarantee Framework Agreement and each Guarantee 
Certificate in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the 
Borrower, and the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and the Financing Agreement; and (iii) 
achieve the purposes of the Project. 
 
14. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,  the proceeds of the Loan made 
available by the Borrower under the Financing Agreement to the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company for operating the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility and with 
respect to which Guarantees have not been issued by the Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Company by the Closing Date shall be refunded by the Borrower to the Bank and 
be cancelled or be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal and 
utilization in accordance with procedures and terms and conditions as the Bank 
may stipulate.  
 
15.   
The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary 
to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of 
exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used 
in its operations. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports  
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
15
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall, for the first two (2) years of Project implementation, 
commencing on the Effective Date cover the following periods: April through 
September and October through March for such years, for which the audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than three (3) months after the end of such period. Commencing with the third 
year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall, on an annual basis, have its 
Financial Statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank.  Each annual audit of said Financial Statements shall cover the period of 
one Fiscal Year of the Borrower and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
six (6) months after the end of the period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Procurement Guidelines and the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods refer to the corresponding method described in 
the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
Commercial Practices. Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan 
made pursuant to a Sub-loan Agreement under Part A of the Project, may be 
procured in accordance with Commercial Practices acceptable to the Bank.  
16
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenses as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Sub-loans under Part A of 
the Project 
380,000,000 
90% of amounts disbursed 
under Sub-loan Agreements 
(2) Financing to operate Risk 
Sharing Guarantee 
Facility under Part B of 
the Project 
10,000,000 
100% of Financing 
provided by SIDBI to the 
Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Company 
(3) Front-end Fee 
1,000,000 
 
(4) Unallocated 
9,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
400,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 1, 2008 
for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
17
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the  
Participation Agreements  
 
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes 
of paragraph A.3(b) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
A. 
Terms 
 
1. 
The principal amount of Subsidiary Loans to on-lend out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to a PFI under its respective Participation Agreement shall be denominated 
in Dollars or Rupees and be the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the 
principal of all Sub-loans made out of the proceeds thereof. 
 
2. 
The duration and interest and other charges on Subsidiary Loans shall be 
determined in accordance with procedures set out in the Operational Manual.  
3. 
The right of a PFI to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan shall be:  
 
(a) 
suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Participation Agreement or to continue to be in 
compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its 
operations or to continue to be in compliance with the eligibility criteria 
set out in paragraph 1 of Part B of this Schedule 3; and  
 
(b)  
terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days. 
 
B. 
Conditions 
 
1. 
Eligibility Criteria of PFIs: A Participation Agreement may be entered into 
with a PFI, which the Borrower shall have determined, that such PFI:   
 
(a) 
has been appraised in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the 
criteria set out in the Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
is in compliance with prudential norms of the Reserve Bank of India 
related to capital adequacy, asset quality, exposure, earnings and 
liquidity;  
 
(c) 
has formulated a satisfactory plan of action to implement relevant 
activities under Part C of the Project;  
 
18
(d) 
has agreed to submit to the Borrower, during the duration of its 
Participation Agreement with the Borrower and not later than six (6) 
months after the end of each fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year 
during which the Participation Agreement is entered into, an audit report 
which: (i) covers two (2) full years of its operations; (ii) is prepared by 
an independent auditor; and (iii) does not contain any observation or 
qualification which may have a materially adverse impact on the 
operations of the PFI; and 
 
(e) 
has established, and has agreed to maintain during the duration of its 
Participation Agreement with the Borrower, a financial management 
system, that adequately reflects the PFI’s resources, expenditures and 
operations. 
 
2. 
Principal Provisions. Each respective Participation Agreement shall contain 
provisions pursuant to which each respective PFI shall undertake to: 
 
(a) 
carry out activities under Part A of the Project and under the plan of 
action to implement activities under Part C of the Original Project, and 
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, appropriate financial standards 
and practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, 
and in conformity with the investment and lending policies and 
procedures referred to in the Operational Manual and in the Social and 
Environmental Framework, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
make Sub-loans to Beneficiary Enterprises on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual including, 
without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such 
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its 
respective Participation Agreement and achieve the purposes of 
the Project; 
 
(iii) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements 
providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the 
prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank; and 
 
(iv) 
appraise activities to be financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-
loan, and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out of 
said activities by the Beneficiary Enterprises, in accordance with 
19
the Operational Manual and the Social and Environmental 
Framework. 
 
(c) 
(i)  
exchange views with and furnish all such information to the 
Bank or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the 
Bank and the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its 
activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under its respective Participation Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Project; 
 
(ii) 
prepare and submit to the Borrower semi-annual reports on  
Sub-loan disbursements and repayments until the currency of the 
Participation Agreement; and 
 
(iii) 
promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Participation Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan. 
20
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans  
 
The provisions of this Schedule shall be for the purposes of paragraph A.3(a) of Section I 
of Schedule 2 and paragraph B.2(b)(i) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
1. 
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph A.2 
of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall be denominated in Rupees or 
Dollars, and be the equivalent, in Rupees or Dollars (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
designated account opened and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.04 of the General Conditions) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the goods financed 
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan made pursuant to a Sub-loan Agreement.   
 
2. 
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at such a rate as may be 
determined by the Borrower or respective PFI on the basis of its assessment of 
market conditions and risk management. 
 
3. 
No expenditures for activities financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the 
date on which the Borrower shall have received the application and information 
required under paragraph 4 of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan. 
 
4. 
Sub-loans shall be made to a Beneficiary Enterprise which shall have established 
to the satisfaction of the Borrower or the PFI, as the case may be, that it has a 
satisfactory financial structure and the organization, management, staff and 
financial and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its 
operations, including the carrying out of the activities financed out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan. 
 
5. 
The Sub-loans shall be made for activities to be financed under a Sub-loan 
Agreement, appraised on the basis of procedures set out in the Operational 
Manual, and which are determined to: 
 
(a) 
be technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable; and maintain an adequate financial management system, records 
and accounts to reflect its operational and financial condition; 
 
(b) 
be in compliance with all requirements pertaining to environmental and 
social protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the 
21
Guarantor and the review procedures set forth in the Operational Manual 
and the Social and Environmental Framework;  
 
(c) 
serve a productive purpose by facilitating the financing of transactions 
conducted by Beneficiary Enterprises; 
 
(d) 
not involve goods, or goods used as inputs in the production of such 
goods, which are intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption or are included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions 
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the PFIs and the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112   
 
 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121   
 
 
 
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse 
122   
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether 
or 
not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525   
 
 
 
Radioactive and associated material 
667   
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 
718.7  
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
 
728.43   
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3  
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
(except 
watches 
and 
watch 
cases) 
and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
 
6. 
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower or the PFI, as the case 
may be, shall obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary Enterprise a (Sub-
loan Agreement), rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, 
the Borrower, and the PFI, including the right to: 
 
(a) 
require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out and operate the facilities 
financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; 
 
(b) 
require: (i) that the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) that such goods shall be used 
22
exclusively in the carrying out of the activities financed out of the 
proceeds of the relevant Sub-Loan; 
 
(c) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank 
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the activities financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(d) 
require that: (i) the Beneficiary Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) 
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover 
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity hereunder to be made payable in a currency 
freely usable by the Beneficiary Enterprise to replace or repair such 
goods; 
 
(e) 
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiary Enterprise and to the benefits to be 
derived from the activities financed out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan; 
and 
 
(f) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Enterprise to perform 
its obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement with the Borrower or the 
PFI. 
 
7. 
The Borrower or the PFI, as the case may be, shall exercise its rights in relation 
to each Sub-loan in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines and in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the 
Borrower and the PFI; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and 
the Sub-loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project. 
23
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility 
Procedures and Terms and Conditions 
 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this Agreement or of the 
Operational Manual, and for the purposes of Section 3.02 of this Agreement and  
paragraph A.4(b)(vi) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program for Part B of the Project and the procedures and terms and conditions for the 
provision of Guarantees shall consist of the following provisions: 
 
1. 
Responsibility for setting Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility premiums shall be 
vested in the Management Group, and the responsibility for assessing financial 
risks and to supervise the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company’s compliance with 
the requirements and procedures of the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility shall be 
vested in the Borrower.  
 
2. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, for the purpose of administering and 
operating the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility, the Borrower shall cause the Risk 
Sharing Guarantee Company to: 
 
(a) 
review applications for Guarantee Certificates by Risk Sharing Financial 
Institutions to verify that each transaction proposed to be covered by a 
Guarantee Certificate meets the following criteria: 
 
(i) 
it comprises loans to Eligible Enterprises by a Risk Sharing 
Financial Institution meeting the eligibility criteria set out in 
paragraph 3 of this Schedule; 
 
(ii) 
it does not involve goods, or goods used or intended to be used 
as inputs in the production of such goods, which are intended for 
a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption or 
are included in the following SITC groups or subgroups, or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the 
SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company and the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112   
 
 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121   
 
 
 
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse 
122   
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether 
or 
not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525   
 
 
 
Radioactive and associated material 
24
667   
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718  
718.7  
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728  
 
728.43   
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3  
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
(except 
watches 
and 
watch 
cases) 
and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
 
(b) 
enter into Guarantee Certificates with Guarantee Holders, providing 
Guarantees against the Covered Risk and containing terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank including, inter 
alia, the following: 
 
(i) 
a guarantee fee determined on the basis of the asset quality 
and/or the spread earned on the relevant portfolio or such other 
method as deemed appropriate by the Management Group; 
 
(ii) 
the annual service fee shall be such percentage as may be agreed 
upon with the Management Group of the Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Facility; 
 
(iii) 
an availability period of the Guarantee determined on the basis 
of the maximum remaining maturity period of the loan or cluster 
of loans; and 
 
(iv) 
the amount of the covered Risk determined on the basis of the 
review and evaluation referred to in paragraph 2(a) of this 
Schedule, provided that such amount does not exceed 50% of the 
outstanding principal balance of the portfolio any point in time; 
 
(c) 
if a Guarantee Certificate terminates or expires without the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company being required to make a Payment hereunder, 
maintain in the Guarantee Reserve Account an amount equivalent to the 
full amount of such Guarantee Certificate, which amount shall be 
available, on a revolving basis, for the purpose of new Guarantee 
Certificates to be issued by the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company in 
accordance with the Operational Manual; 
 
25
(d) 
if a Loss covered by a Guarantee Certificate occurs, make a Payment in 
respect thereof to the relevant Guarantee Holder in accordance with the 
provisions of such Guarantee Certificate and the Operations Manual by 
making a withdrawal from the Guarantee Reserve Account. Where such 
Loss is only partial, then the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company shall 
maintain in the Guarantee Reserve Account an amount equivalent to the 
difference between the original amount of such Guarantee Certificate and 
the relevant Payment, which amount shall be available, on a revolving 
basis, for the purpose of new Guarantee Certificates to be issued by the 
Risk Sharing Guarantee Company in accordance with the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Facility Operational Manual; 
 
(e) 
maintain on deposit in the Guarantee Reserve Account all interest earned 
on the amounts deposited in the Guarantee Reserve Account, as well as 
all net profits, dividends, distributions, capital gains and other income 
derived from or related to any Eligible Investments, and use said income 
exclusively for the purposes specified in this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
maintain copies of all Guarantee Certificates issued, and all records 
relating thereto, for at least one (1) year after: (i) receipt by the Bank of 
the relevant audit report required in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual and the 
Operational Manual, or (ii) the termination or expiration of the relevant 
Guarantee Certificate, whichever is the later; and 
 
(g) 
without prejudice to any of the provisions of the Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Operational Manual and the Operational Manual, provide the Borrower 
and the Bank on a semi-annual basis, commencing three (3) months after 
the Effective Date, with a written report specifying for the preceding 
calendar quarter: (A) the Guarantee Certificates issued and their 
respective Guarantee Holders; (B) the amount of each such Guarantee 
Certificate and its expiry date; (C) a listing of the amounts withdrawn by 
it from the Loan Account, including the dates of such withdrawal, as well 
as the aggregate amount so withdrawn since the Effective Date; (D) a 
listing of the amounts deposited by it into the Guarantee Reserve 
Account, including the dates of such deposit, as well as the aggregate 
amount so deposited since the Effective Date; (E) the amount of each 
Payment made, including the date thereof, together with confirmation of 
the relevant Guarantee Certificate to which such Payment relates, as well 
as a listing of the amounts withdrawn by it from the Guarantee Reserve 
Account, including the dates of such withdrawal, for the purposes of 
making such Payments, and the aggregate amount of such Payments 
since the Effective Date;  and (F) a listing of the Guarantee Certificates 
which expired or were subject to early termination. 
 
26
3. 
The criteria in accordance with which Risk Sharing Financial Institutions shall be 
eligible to be covered by Guarantee Certificates in respect of their portfolio of 
loans to Eligible Enterprises shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
the experience and capacities of such Institutions in delivering financial 
services to the SME market; 
 
(b) 
marketing plans and capabilities to develop new SME loans using the 
Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility; 
 
(c) 
the criteria relating to capital adequacy and profitability as applicable for 
PFIs and set out in Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual; 
 
(d) 
satisfactory asset quality on the SME portfolio with a ratio of net non-
performing loans of no more than 6%; 
 
(e) 
the risk profile of the selected portfolio of loans of a Risk Sharing 
Financial Institution is not worse than the average SME portfolio of the 
Institution; and 
 
(f) 
the portfolio does not include any loan with an outstanding balance 
greater than 25% of the corpus of the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company to ensure that 
Guarantees issued by the Company does not cover risk of loss for more than 50% 
of the amount payable by Eligible Enterprises to a Risk Sharing Financial 
Institution in respect of its selected loans (Covered Risk).  Subject to the 
availability of additional funds from other donors to be utilized for the purpose of 
providing second loss guarantee coverage through the Company, the amount of 
the proceeds of the Loan to be utilized for the purpose of providing Guarantees 
shall not exceed coverage for an amount which when added to the coverage 
provided by other donors exceed 50% of the amount referred to in the first 
sentence of this paragraph. 
 
27
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
 
June 15, 2014 
33.25% 
June 15, 2019 
33.25% 
June 15, 2024 
33.50% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
28
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
29
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Beneficiary Enterprise” means an SME satisfying the appropriate criteria as set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to which the Borrower or a 
PFI (as defined hereinafter) proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.  
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Co-financing” means a grant provided, or to be provided, by the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, acting through its Department 
for International Development, referred to in paragraph 15 of the Appendix to the 
General Conditions, to assist in the financing of Part C of the Project (which Part 
can be supplemented with additional funding from other donor agencies). 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Covered Risk” means the risk of loss in the event of default in payment of any 
loan extended to an Eligible Enterprise (as defined hereinafter) by a Risk Sharing 
Financial Institution (as defined hereinafter), which risk is covered under a 
Guarantee Certificate issued by the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company to such 
Risk Sharing Financial Institution for a loans selected in accordance with criteria 
set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Declaration of Trust” means the Trust Deed dated July 27, 2000, executed under 
the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 and registered by the Sub-Registrar of 
Mumbai by Document No. BBE3649/2000 on July 27, 2000, or any successor or 
successors thereto, which established the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro 
and Small Enterprises. 
 
8. 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in the table in 
paragraph A.2 of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Eligible Investments” means, investments made by the Risk Sharing Guarantee 
Company   using the proceeds of the Loan made available by the Borrower under 
the Financing Agreement (as defined hereinafter) and deposited into the 
Guarantee Reserve Account (as defined hereinafter), from time to time in 
30
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, which investments shall: (i) in 
terms of tenor as well as liquidity, be structured in a manner to optimize the 
return on investments to the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company and to enable the 
Risk Sharing Guarantee Company to meet claims, if any, made under Guarantee 
Certificates; and (ii) not be speculative in nature; and be held in a segregated 
account, all in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Facility Operational Manual.  
 
10. 
“Eligible Enterprise” means, individually, an SME established and operating 
within the Guarantor’s territory, and engaged in transactions that are covered by 
an irrevocable documentary credit which is confirmed in the Guarantor’s territory 
by a Risk Sharing Financial Institution party to a Guarantee Framework 
Agreement, all in compliance with the eligibility and selection criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual, and the term "Eligible Enterprises" means, collectively, 
more than one Eligible Enterprise. 
 
11. 
“Financing” means the financial contribution made by the Borrower in the Risk 
Sharing Guarantee Company (as defined hereinafter) and financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of, inter-alia, operating the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Facility (as defined hereinafter). 
 
12. 
“Financing Agreement” means the Agreement entered into between the Borrower 
and the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company (as defined hereinafter), providing for 
the Financing and containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for 
the management and operation of the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility. 
 
13. 
“Fiscal Year” means, the Fiscal Year of the Borrower, a PFI, the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company or a Risk Sharing Financial Institution commencing on 
April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar 
year. 
 
14. 
“GAAP” means the Governance and Accountability Action Plan, dated  
March 21, 2009, adopted by the Borrower, for the purpose of setting forth the 
actions that are built into the Project design, implementation and supervision 
arrangements to mitigate any risks related to governance, fraud and corruption, 
and to ensure sustainability of Project outcomes and impact, as such Plan may be 
revised from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.  
 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008),  with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
16. 
“Guarantee” means, individually, the obligation undertaken by the Risk Sharing 
Company to make Payment (as defined hereinafter) to a Guarantee Holder (as 
31
defined hereinafter) in respect of a Covered Risk under a Guarantee Certificate 
issued by the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company to such Guarantee Holder, and 
the term “Guarantees” means, collectively, more than one Guarantee. 
 
17. 
“Guarantee Certificate” means, any contract entered into by the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company with Guarantee Holders, providing Guarantees against the 
Covered Risk in respect of loans that have been selected by the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company in accordance with the criteria set out in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and containing satisfactory terms and conditions including those set 
out in such Schedule 5.  
 
18. 
“Guarantee Framework Agreement” means an agreement entered into by the 
Risk Sharing Guarantee Company with Risk Sharing Financial Institution setting 
out the overall framework within which Guarantee Certificates may be issued to 
such Risk Sharing Financial Institution, including the procedures and terms and 
conditions referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Facility Operational Manual. 
 
19. 
“Guarantee Holder” means a Risk Sharing Financial Institution which, having 
entered into a Guarantee Framework Agreement and having granted loans to an 
Eligible Enterprise, has been issued a Guarantee Certificate by the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Guarantee Reserve Account” means the account opened by the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, at a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank in the Guarantor’s territory, for the 
purpose of depositing amounts withdrawn by the Borrower on account of the 
Financing made from time to time from the proceeds of the Loan and to be 
utilized in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
21. 
“IAD” means the Internal Audit Department of the Borrower. 
 
22. 
“Loss” means the amount denominated in Rupees, payable by the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company to a Guarantee Holder upon the occurrence of a Covered 
Risk, determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Guarantee 
Framework Agreement and Guarantee Certificate issued to such Guarantee 
Holder. 
 
23. 
“Management Group” means the group of personnel to be appointed and/or 
engaged and thereafter maintained, all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank and the Borrower, by the Risk Sharing Guarantee Company which group 
will bear responsibilities as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the 
Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual.  
 
32
24. 
“Operational 
Manual” 
means 
the 
manual 
of 
the 
Borrower 
dated  
October 27, 2004, and amended on March 21, 2009, as such Manual may be 
amended from time to time. 
 
25. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Small and Medium 
Enterprises and Development Project between the Bank and the Borrower, dated 
January 14, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7263-IN). 
 
26. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 of the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
 
27. 
“PMD” means the dedicated team of the Borrower established for the purpose of 
assisting the Borrower in managing the implementation, monitoring, and 
supervision of the Project. 
 
28. 
“Participating Financial Institution” or “PFI” means any Scheduled Commercial 
Bank (as defined hereinafter) or financial institution selected by the Borrower 
pursuant to criteria set forth in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
29. 
“Participation Agreement” means any agreement entered or to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a PFI pursuant to paragraph B.2 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules supplemental to the Participation Agreement. 
 
30. 
“Payment” means any payment made to a Guarantee Holder on account of a 
Loss. 
 
31. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
32. 
“Project Review Committee” means the committee consisting of representatives 
of all partners in the Project (of which the Bank is a key member) established to 
review and provide policy guidance for implementing the Project. 
 
33. 
“Reserve Bank of India” or “RBI” means the Bank constituted under the 
provisions of Section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, as amended. 
 
34. 
“Risk Sharing Guarantee Company” means the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for 
Micro and Small Enterprises, established by the government of India and the 
Borrower as an irrevocable Trust through the Declaration of Trust or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
35. 
“Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility” means the Facility established by the Risk 
Sharing Guarantee Company for purposes of providing Guarantees utilizing the 
33
proceeds of the Loan and other financing that may be made available to it, such 
Guarantees to be issued in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 of this 
Agreement, the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual, the 
Financing Agreement and the Declaration of Trust.  
 
36. 
“Risk Sharing Financial Institution” means, any Scheduled Commercial Bank (as 
defined hereinafter) or any other financial institution selected by the Risk Sharing 
Guarantee Company pursuant to criteria set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
37. 
“Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility Operational Manual” means the Manual to be 
adopted by the Risk Sharing Guarantee Facility in accordance with the provisions 
of this Agreement; as such manual may be revised from time to time in 
accordance with this Agreement. 
 
38. 
“Rupees” and “Rs” mean the lawful currency of India. 
 
39. 
“Scheduled Commercial Bank” means any bank included in the Second Schedule 
to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, as may be amended from time to time. 
 
40. 
“Social and Environmental Framework” means the Framework established and 
approved by the Borrower for the purpose of managing the social and 
environmental risks of the Project; as set out in the Operational Manual. 
 
41. 
“SIDBI” means a Statutory Corporation established under Section 3 of the Small 
Industries Development Bank of India Act, 1989, as amended. 
 
42. 
“SIDBI Act” means Small Industries Development Bank of India Act, 1989, as 
amended. 
 
43. 
“SITC” means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, 
Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M,  
No.34/Rev. 3 (1986). 
 
44. 
“SME” means a small or medium scale enterprise, business or service firm with 
investments in plant and machinery of up to Rs.100 million. 
 
45. 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower or a PFI, 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the 
table set forth in paragraph A.2 of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
for purposes of financing or refinancing all or a portion of the expenditures 
incurred by a Beneficiary Enterprise for goods, or for the financing of working 
capital requirements of a Beneficiary Enterprise carried out under a Sub-loan 
Agreement. 
 
34
46. 
“Sub-loan Agreement” means an agreement entered into by the Borrower or a 
PFI with a Beneficiary Enterprise for the purpose of providing a Sub-loan and 
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
47. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means any loan made pursuant to a Participation Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows, namely, Paragraph 
(l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
 
 
(l)  
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank 
or 
the 
Association.”
 
