CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7613-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Financing Public Private Partnership In Infrastructure Through Support 
to the India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
INDIA INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED 
 
Dated October 13, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 13, 2009, between INTERNATIONAL  
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and INDIA 
INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED (“Borrower”).   
 
Whereas the Borrower has also requested additional recipient-executed grant 
funds in an aggregate amount equivalent to five million Dollars towards the financing of 
component II of the project (“Project”) described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
whereas the Bank is committed to provide such grant funds to the extent of the amount 
stated. 
 
Now therefore, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion one hundred and ninety 
five million Dollars ($1,195,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
2
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following, namely 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar, the Borrower shall pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely the 
Memorandum and Articles of Association shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Chairman and Managing Director of 
IIFCL.   
 
6.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-4776391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
6.03. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited  
1201-1207 Naurang House 
21, Kasturba Gandhi Marg 
New Delhi - 110001  
India 
 
Facsimile: 
 
91-11-23-73-63-55 
 
4
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
N. Roberto Zagha 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INDIA INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE  
 COMPANY LIMITED  
 
 
 
 
By /s/ 
Pradeep Kumar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the availability of long-term financing 
for infrastructure public private partnerships (PPP) projects in India.  
The Project consists of the following components: 
 
I. 
Long-Term Finance to Infrastructure Projects  
 
Provision of the Sub-loans by the Borrower to the Sub-borrowers for the purpose 
of financing the Sub-projects.   
 
II. 
Capacity Building and Project Implementation 
 
A. 
Strengthening the Borrower’s institutional capacity, through the following:  
 
(1) 
development and implementation of the IIFCL quality management 
system to meet ISO 9000 quality standards;  
 
(2) 
developing and strengthening an enhanced environmental and social 
safeguards framework into the Borrower’s due diligence of the credit 
review process and post-sanction monitoring of the Sub-projects;  
 
(3) 
implementation of the human resource strategy/plan;  
 
(4) 
development of new products;  
 
(5)  
risk management and research support for the Borrower’s treasury;   
 
(6) 
development of staff skills, through training in areas such as: (i) treasury 
functions and resource management; (ii) credit origination; (iii) credit 
review, risk management and post-sanction monitoring; (iv) IT;  
(v) human resources management; (vi) environmental and social 
compliance, auditing and tracking; (vii) procurement; (viii) legal;  
(ix)  accounting and financial management; (x) research and planning; 
and (xi) leadership and team building; and 
 
(7) 
development and implementation of business plans for the IIFCL and its 
subsidiaries; and 
 
6
(8)  
other mutually acceptable activities. 
 
B. 
Implementation and monitoring of the Project, including areas of financial 
management, procurement, safeguards enforcement, and general monitoring and 
reporting. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements and Undertakings for the Project
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain an adequate organizational structure, with 
functions, powers, staff and resources necessary and appropriate for Project 
implementation. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain an Environment and Social 
Safeguards Management Unit, with functions, powers, staff and resources 
necessary and appropriate to review and monitor the environmental and social 
aspects of the Sub-projects.  
 
B. 
Project Undertakings 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Section B, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Operations Manual 
and the Current ESSF, and shall ensure that the Operations Manual and the 
Current ESSF are not materially revised, amended or abrogated without the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
2. 
Within nine (9) months from the date of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare, adopt, and publish on its Web site, an enhanced Environmental and 
Social Safeguards Framework, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall summarize 
the policies and provisions related to the Sub-projects for: (a) carrying out  
environment and social assessment; (b) conducting consultations with relevant 
stakeholders; (c) preparing, reviewing  and implementing management plans 
such as Environment Management Plans, Resettlement Action Plans, Tribal 
Development Plans, as applicable; (d) processing and redressing grievances; and 
(e) carrying out monitoring and evaluation of implementation outcomes.  The 
Borrower shall update the respective environmental and social sections of the 
Operations Manual and ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the enhanced Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework immediately 
following its adoption.  The enhanced Environmental and Social Safeguards 
Framework may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the 
Bank.   
 
3. 
The Borrower shall install and operate a Management Information System to 
track and monitor environmental and social aspects of the Sub-projects, and 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
8
4. 
As and when the Borrower reviews and updates, as required, the Risk 
Management Framework (in effect as of April 1, 2009), it shall share such 
information with the Bank for comments. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Sub-projects 
1. 
The Borrower shall select the Sub-projects and Sub-borrowers and shall make the 
Sub-loans in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in 
the Operations Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall make each Sub-loan under a Sub-loan Agreement with the 
respective Sub-borrower on terms and conditions set forth in the Operations 
Manual.  The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and 
those of the Bank, including the right to  suspend or terminate the right of the 
Sub-borrower to use the proceeds of the Sub-loan, or declare to be immediately 
due and payable all or any part of the amount of the Sub-loan then withdrawn, 
upon the Sub-borrower’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-
loan Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Sub-borrower is required to: 
 
(a) 
carry out its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, 
environmental and social standards and practices adopted by the 
Borrower, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines;  
 
(b) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; 
 
(c) 
ensure that Sub-project funds are used for intended purposes; 
 
(d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of its 
objectives;  
 
(e) 
(i) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied Indian accounting 
standards as issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, 
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (ii) have such financial 
9
statements audited by independent auditors in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards, and promptly furnish the 
statements as so audited to the Borrower, all in accordance with the 
Operations Manual;  
 
(f) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and 
 
(g) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower or the Bank, through the Borrower, 
all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Sub-loan Agreement is consistent with and 
includes, as appropriate, the terms and conditions set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of this Part D. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Sub-loan Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not materially amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-loan 
Agreement, or any of their provisions.  If the Borrower assigns any Sub-loan to a 
third party, the Borrower shall: (a) notify the Bank of this action; and (b) repay to 
the Bank the amount of the Loan used to finance such a Sub-loan. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph 1 of Part A of Section II of this 
Schedule, by July 31, 2012, the Borrower shall carry out a comprehensive mid-
term Project review, and shall by September 30, 2012, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a mid-term Project progress report, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2015. 
 
10
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 5.09(a) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied Indian 
accounting standards as issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, 
both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of the 
Borrower, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Reports, transactional 
unaudited interim financial reports (IFRs) for disbursements under Component I, 
which may be compiled into the Quarterly Component I-IFRs and Quarterly 
Component II-IFRs, to be submitted to the Bank not later than thirty (30) days 
after the end of each quarter. The quarterly IFRs shall be consolidated by the 
Borrower into one annual IFR which shall be appended to the Annual Audited 
Accounts of the Borrower as a schedule. The annual audited accounts of the 
Borrower shall be submitted within six (6) months of the close of each Fiscal 
Year.  
 
3. 
Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  The Borrower 
shall ensure that its audit reports discuss whether the Loan funds provided under 
Component I have been used for intended purposes.  Each audit of these financial 
statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the Borrower.  The 
audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the end of the period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
Under Component I 
 
Procurement under the Sub-projects shall be carried out in accordance with the 
Procurement Guidelines.  The Sub-projects shall be eligible for Loan financing: 
 
1. 
if the Sub-borrower is a private-sector enterprise or any of the other type of 
enterprise specified in paragraph 3.12 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the 
procurement undertaken by the Sub-borrower is in accordance with established 
private sector or commercial practices, which are acceptable to the Bank;  
 
2. 
if the Sub-project involves a BOO/BOT/BOOT or similar type of a contract and 
has been selected in accordance with International Competitive Bidding (ICB)  
11
procedures acceptable to the Bank, which may include several stages, as further 
spelled out in paragraph 3.13(a) of the Procurement Guidelines, and the Sub-
borrower procures goods, works, and services under the Sub-project from eligible 
sources, in accordance with its own procedures; or  
 
3. 
if, pursuant to paragraph 3.13(b) of the Procurement Guidelines, the Sub-
borrower involves a BOO/BOT/BOOT or similar type of a contract and has not 
been selected in accordance with ICB procedures acceptable to the Bank, and the 
Sub-borrower procures goods, works, and services under the Sub-project in 
accordance with the ICB procedures of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Under Component II 
 
1. 
General 
 
(a) 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
(b) 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
(c) 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
2. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
(a) 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  
(b) 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
12
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Limited International Bidding 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding, and the additional provisions agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank 
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
3. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
(a) 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph (b) below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
(b) 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-based selection 
(b) Selection under Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection    
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-source Selection 
 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
13
 
4. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts (including all the Sub-
projects) which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts 
shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(1) Sub-loans under  
Component I of the 
Project 
 
1,192,012,500 
 
100% 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
2,987,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07(c) of 
the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1,195,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
14
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $239,000,000 equivalent 
under the Loan may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after 
November 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2015. 
 
15
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October  15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2017  
 
through October 15, 2036 
 
2.44% 
 
On April 15, 2037 
2.40% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
16
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
17
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Current ESSF” means the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework of 
the Borrower, dated February 28, 2008, and amended on August 22, 2008, which 
sets forth the environmental and social safeguards applicable to the Project, 
including identification, assessment and mitigation of potential environmental 
and social impacts arising from carrying our Project activities, measures to 
protect cultural property, proposed management and mitigation measures and the 
relevant institutional arrangements, as such document may be revised from time 
to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
5. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, beginning on April 1 of a 
calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
7. 
“IIFCL” (or the “Borrower”) means India Infrastructure Finance Company 
Limited, a company registered under the India’s Companies Act (1956), as 
amended, having its registered office at 1201-1207 Naurang House, 21, Kasturba 
Gandhi Marg, New Delhi - 110001, India, and governed by the SIFTI. 
 
8. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by 
the Borrower on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including salaries of non-civil service positions and consultancy 
costs, dissemination of Project related information, office and equipment 
purchase, maintenance and repair, vehicle maintenance and repair, travel, 
including travel to Sub-project sites, security, communication, bank charges, and 
other costs directly associated with and necessary under the Project. 
 
18
9. 
“Memorandum and Articles of Association” means the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of the Borrower, as may be amended from time to time. 
 
10. 
“Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual adopted by the Borrower on 
October 8, 2008 (IIFCL Board Resolution No. 5/20/781/2008-09), setting forth 
the policies, terms, conditions and procedures related to Project implementation, 
as such manual may be amended from time to time in accordance with  
Schedule 2, Section I, Part B paragraph 1 of this Agreement. 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated August 10, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“SIFTI” means the Scheme for Financing Viable Infrastructure Projects Through 
a Special Purpose Vehicle Called India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited, 
approved by the Borrower’s Government of India under Order No.10/12/2005-
INF on January 4, 2006, revised on April 23, 2007 and thereafter, and as may be 
amended from time to time. 
 
14. 
“Sub-borrower” means an entity which has been selected by the Borrower in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, to which the Borrower proposes or has made a Sub-loan.   
 
15. 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 2 of Part A of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for the purpose of financing all or portion of 
expenditures incurred by the Sub-borrower under a Sub-project. 
 
16. 
“Sub-loan Agreement” means an agreement or agreements between and among 
the Borrower, other lenders/creditors, and the Sub-borrower for the purpose of 
providing a Sub-loan and other financing for the Sub-project. 
 
17. 
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure public private partnerships project 
selected by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 1 of Part D of Section I 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried out by a Sub-
borrower, in whole or in part through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-
loan.  
 
19
18. 
“Training” means reasonable and necessary costs of training related to Project 
implementation, including the fees of educational or other institutions that 
provide training, costs related to attendance or organization of conferences, 
seminars, study tours and workshops, and the trainees’ cost of travel, boarding, 
lodging and per diem allowances.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
