CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7712-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Xining Flood and Watershed Management Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 11, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 11, 2009, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
3
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By: /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Elaine Sun 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The development objective of the project is to improve the protection of property 
and safety of people from flood events and bring about sustainable utilization of land and 
water resources within Xining Municipality of Qinghai Province of the Borrower.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Flood Control and Management  
1. 
Carrying out of flood control works, including strengthening of dikes, 
construction of access roads, cross dike structures, and water level control 
structures, and strengthening of main rivers and minor tributary water and 
drainage courses within Xining Municipality.  
 
2. 
Establishment and operation of a flood warning system for Xining Municipality 
through, inter alia, acquisition and installation of equipment and computer 
hardware and software.  
 
3. 
Carrying out river bank landscaping works along rivers in Xining Municipality. 
 
Part B: Wastewater Collection  
 
1. 
Construction of pipelines to intercept wastewater and urban storm water that 
currently flow to the river systems in the Xining Municipality and connecting the 
collected wastewater to four (4) waste-water treatment plants: (a) Chengnan 
Wastewater Treatment Plant, in Xining City; (b) The Second Wastewater 
Treatment Plant in Xining City; (c) The Third Wastewater Treatment Plant, in 
Xining City; and (d) Datong Wastewater Treatment Plant, in Datong County. 
 
Part C: Participatory Watershed Management  
1. 
Carrying out of soil and water conservation measures in the Selected Sub-
watersheds within Xining Municipality including afforestation by planting a 
mixture of selected species of trees and shrubs and vegetation protection.  
 
2. 
Carrying out engineering measures to build silt retention and water/erosion check 
and control structures, designed to slow the flow of flood water in the Selected 
Sub-watersheds, including constructing check dams, and terracing of slope land. 
 
3. 
Provision of Sub-grants to farmers and Administrative Villages in the Selected 
Sub-watersheds for carrying out: (a) animal husbandry activities, including 
building sheds and procuring animals; (b) renewable energy activities, including 
5
constructing bio-gas facilities and procuring solar stoves; (c) construction of 
green houses; (d) procuring grass choppers; and (e) construction of village level 
infrastructure, including improvement of access roads and farm access tracks. 
 
Part D:  Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building  
 
1. 
Construction of a flood warning center to operate the flood warning system 
referred to in Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of Xining Municipality in Project management 
through, inter alia, provision of office equipment, consulting services, training 
and study tours, and carrying out of technical study and research.  
 
Part E: Resettlement and Environmental Management 
 
1. 
Carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection 
with the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of Xining Municipality to manage the adverse 
environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of the Project through, 
inter alia, establishment and operation of environmental management offices, 
provision of consulting services and carrying out of monitoring and supervision.  
 
Part F: Project Management 
 
1. 
Development and implementation of a management information system and 
strengthening the capacity of Xining Municipality to carry out, inter alia,
procurement, construction supervision, quality control, financial management, 
and monitoring and evaluation with respect to the Project. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Implementing Entity the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Categories set forth in the 
table in Section IV of this Schedule, on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.  
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the principal amount so 
made available; and (B) the amount of the fee paid pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.  
 
7
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provision of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Progress Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
8
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 4 below, works costing less than $15,000,000 equivalent per contract 
and goods costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded under NCB procedures, subject to the additional 
provisions provided in paragraph 3 below.  
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for procuring goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement 
Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except contracts for 
works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each or goods 
contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to 
obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be 
given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper 
and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect Qinghai in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the 
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such 
security. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
9
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Borrower or Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods if they can establish that 
they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate under 
commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency 
conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take 
place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national press or provincial press (as provided under 3(i) above) or 
official gazette or  a free and open access website and shall identify the 
name and offered price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
Qinghai shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
10
4. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and 
works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)      Shopping 
(b)      Community Participation 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
(d)  Single Source Selection 
3. 
The short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract equivalent to $300,000 or more for goods and $5,000,000 or more for 
11
works; (b) the first contract for works under Part A of the Project procured in 
accordance with National Competitive Bidding Procedures by each of 
Huangyuan, Huangzhong and Datong County and Xining City comprised in the 
Project Area; (c) the first contract for works under each of Part B and Part D of 
the Project procured in accordance with National Competitive Bidding 
Procedures; (d) the first two contracts for works under Part C of the Project 
procured in accordance with National Competitive Bidding Procedures; (e) the 
first contract for works procured in accordance with Shopping procedures; (f) the 
first contract for goods procured in accordance with Shopping procedures; (g) 
each contract for consultant services in excess of $100,000; (h) the first 
individual consultant contract irrespective of value; and (i) each contract awarded 
under single source selection would be subject to prior review by the Bank.  All 
other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.  
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures inclusive of 
taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of taxes) 
 
1. Works and goods 
90,940,000 
75% 
2. Consultant services, 
training, workshops and 
study tours 
4,810,000 
100% 
3. Sub-grant 
4,000,000 
100% of Bank financing 
4.  Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
12
TOTAL 
$100,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after March 31, 2009 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
13
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
Beginning November 15, 2014  
 
through May 15, 2039 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
14
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
15
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Administrative Village” means an Administrative Village constituting the 
lowest level of administrative body within a county in Qinghai. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means a farmer or an Administrative Village in the Project Area 
and selected in accordance with eligibility criteria referred to in Section A.1 of 
Annex 2 to the Schedule to the Project Agreement for receiving a Sub-grant and 
to carry out a Livelihood Support Package pursuant to an Implementation 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“County Project Coordination Offices” and the acronym (CPCOs) mean the 
county level offices established by the Project Implementing Entity in 
Huangyuan, Huangzhong and Datong Counties and to be maintained according 
to the provisions of paragraph 1(f) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
7. 
“County Project Leading Groups” and the acronym “CPLGs” mean the county 
level offices established by the Project Implementing Entity in Huangyuan, 
Huangzhong and Datong Counties and to be maintained according to the 
provisions of paragraph 1(e) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
8. 
“County Project Management Offices” and the acronym “CPMOs” mean the 
county level offices established by the Project Implementing Entity in 
Huangyuan, Huangzhong and Datong Counties and to be maintained according 
to the provisions of paragraph 1(g) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Dam Safety Panel” means the panel consisting of at least two experts appointed 
by the Project Implementing Entity for the purposes, inter alia, of reviewing the 
safety aspects of the Upstream Dams and the Selected Check Dams. 
16
10. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
11. 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” mean the document 
dated February 12, 2009 adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, setting 
forth, inter alia, the assessment of environmental impacts of the Project, 
recommendations for mitigation of adverse impacts and enhancement of positive 
impacts based on such assessment, and the guidelines for environmental 
screening and monitoring of Project implementation, as the same shall be 
supplemented by annual EMP action plans prepared by the Project Implementing 
Entity in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement; and such term 
includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said Plan.  
 
12. 
“Ethnic Minorities Development Plan” means the development plan dated 
February 13, 2009 adopted by the Project Implementing Entity with the objective 
of avoiding cultural, social and economic adverse effects on ethnic minorities 
caused or likely to be caused by the Project, and through a process of informed 
consultation and participation, involving concerned ethnic minorities in the 
design and implementation of relevant Project activities so as to ensure that the 
benefits received by the ethnic minorities under the Project are in harmony with 
their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user 
rights. 
 
13. 
“Expert Panel” and the acronym “EP” mean the panel appointed by the Project 
Implementing Entity and to be maintained according to the provisions of 
paragraph 1(d) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the Financial Management Manual 
dated March 13, 2009 adopted by the Project Implementing Entity and which sets 
out the policies and procedures for establishing and maintaining a financial 
management system to be implemented by the Project Implementing Entity in the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
17
16. 
“Implementation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into by  any one 
of the counties or Xining City included in the Project Area with a Beneficiary for 
the purpose of providing a Sub-grant to said Beneficiary for carrying out a 
Livelihood Support Package. 
 
17. 
“Livelihood Support Package” means the package of activities to be carried out 
by a Beneficiary under Part C.3 of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-
grant pursuant to an Implementation Agreement.  
 
18. 
“Pest Management Plan” means the document dated February 12, 2009 adopted 
by the Project Implementing Entity, setting forth, inter alia, the assessment of 
pest management in the Project Area and potential environmental impacts under 
the Project, recommendations for mitigation of adverse impacts and enhancement 
of positive impacts based on such assessment, including supporting an integrated 
approach to pest management focusing, inter alia, on the safe use of agricultural 
pesticides, non-chemical approaches to pest control, and guidelines for the use of 
appropriate chemicals, and sets out capacity building measures and monitoring 
and evaluation procedures.  
 
19. 
“Participatory Watershed Management Manual” means the Manual dated 
February 18, 2009 adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, which sets out 
the principles and strategies for the design and implementation of watershed 
rehabilitation activities under Part C of the Project and includes the policies and 
procedures for the participation of communities in said activities. 
 
20. 
“Participatory Watershed Management Plan” means the plan developed or to be 
developed for each Selected Sub-watershed in accordance with the provisions of 
the Participatory Watershed Management Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
setting out, inter alia, the details of the activities to be carried out under Part C of 
the Project.  
 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Manual” means the manual dated February 4, 2009 setting out the 
detailed procedures for carrying out procurement under the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Procurement Guidelines, the Procurement Plan, this 
Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Procurement Plan dated March 10, 2009 for the 
Project, adopted by the Project Implementing Entity and referred to in paragraph 
1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraphs. 
18
24. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Borrower’s 
Province of Qinghai, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
25. 
“Project Area” means the areas in the counties of Huangyuan, Huangzhong and 
Datong and the urban area of Xining City within Xining Municipality selected by 
Qinghai for carrying out the Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
26. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Qinghai. 
 
27. 
“Qinghai” means the Borrower’s Province of Qinghai, and any successor thereto, 
and also referred to as Project Implementing Entity. 
 
28. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean the resettlement 
action plan dated March 16, 2009 prepared with respect to the Project, duly 
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, and which Plan sets out, inter alia:
(a) the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the 
execution of the Project; (b) a process framework to compensate for the possible 
loss of areas for vegetation resulting from the measures to promote ecological 
rehabilitation in some areas, and to facilitate assistance for livelihood 
improvement of the affected people; and (c) reporting and monitoring 
arrangements  to ensure compliance with said plan, as said RAP may be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and such term includes 
all attachments and annexes supplemental to said Plan. 
 
29. 
“Selected Check Dams” means those check dams to be constructed under  
Part C.2 of the Project and listed in Section II of the Annex to this Appendix, 
which are subject to review by the Dam Safety Panel in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
30. 
“Selected Sub-watersheds” means the seventeen (17) Sub-watersheds located in 
the Project Area that have been selected by Xining Municipality for carrying out 
Part C of the Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank and 
includes any other Sub-watershed that may be selected with the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
 
31. 
“Sub-grant” means a Sub-grant to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan by 
any one of the counties or Xining City included in the Project Area to a 
Beneficiary under an Implementation Agreement for carrying out activities under 
Part C.3 of the Project included in a Livelihood Support Package. 
 
19
32. 
“Upstream Dams” means the existing dams located upstream of the Project Area 
as listed in Section I of the Annex to this Appendix whose operational safety is 
essential to be maintained for the protection of the activities carried out under the 
Project and which are subject to review by the Dam Safety Panel in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
33. 
“Xining Community Project Management Groups” and the acronym “XCPMGs” 
mean the groups established by the Project Implementing Entity in 
Administrative Villages in the Project Area, each such group being represented 
by an elected group leader, and maintained according to the provisions of 
paragraph 1(h) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
34. 
“Xining Municipality” means Xining Municipality of the Project Implementing 
Entity, and any successor thereto. 
 
35. 
“Xining Municipality Project Coordination Office” and the acronym “XPCO” 
mean the office established by the Project Implementing Entity and to be 
maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
36. 
“Xining Municipality Project Leading Group” and the acronym “XPLG” mean 
the office established by the Project Implementing Entity and to be maintained 
according to the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
37. 
“Xining Municipality Project Management Office” and the acronym “XPMO” 
mean the office established by the Project Implementing Entity and to be 
maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of Section I of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (1) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank 
…. 
(1) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
20
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
21
ANNEX 
 
List of Upstream Dams and Selected Check Dams  
referred to in paragraphs 32 and 29, respectively, of the  
Appendix to this Agreement 
 
The following Dams are subject to review by the Dam Safety Panel in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement: 
 
Section I: Upstream Dams 
 
(1) Heiquan Dam; (2) Zhongling Dam; (3) Dahamen Dam; (4) Jingyang Dam;  
(5) Pandao Dam; (6) Dananchuan Dam; (7) Dashimen Dam; (8) Yunguchuan Dam;  
(9) Shengli Dam; and (10) No. 1 Xiaxigou Dam 
 
Section II: Selected Check Dams to be constructed under Part C.2 of the Project 
 
(1) Xiaquan Check Dam; (2) Duoxue Check Dam; (3) Longwa Check Dam;  
(4) Shijiatai 1 Check Dam; (5) Shijiatai 2 Check Dam; (6) Shangquan Check Dam; and 
(7) 
Quanerwan 
Check 
Dam
 
