CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7699-MK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Municipal Services Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
(the Borrower) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 29, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 29, 2009, between the Borrower and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).  The Borrower 
and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighteen million nine hundred 
thousand Euro (�18,900,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
The Project Operational Manual, including models of a Sub-loan 
Agreement and a Grant Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
adopted by the Borrower.  
 
(b) 
The Project Coordination Committee with a composition, resources and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank has been established by the 
Borrower. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.  
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Dame Gruev 14 
1000 Skopje 
 
Facsimile: 
 
389 2 3117 280 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Skopje, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
BORROWER 
 
By /s/ Trajko Slaveski 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Markus Repnik 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve transparency, financial sustainability 
and delivery of targeted municipal services in the Participating Municipalities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Component A: Municipal Investments
Provision of Sub-loans to the Participating Municipalities to finance Sub-projects 
in the area of water and sanitation services, solid waste management and other revenue-
generating or cost saving investments in communal services selected in accordance with 
the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual.  
 
Component B: Capacity Building and Institutional Reform
1. 
Provision of consultants’ services and Training to the Participating 
Municipalities to assist with Sub-projects preparation and implementation. 
 
2. 
Provision of consultants’ services and Training to the Participating 
Municipalities and their communal service enterprises to strengthen their capacity in 
service provision, communications and public outreach activities and in meeting the 
selection criteria for Performance-based Investment Grants under Component C of the 
Project. 
 
3. 
Institutional strengthening of the Borrower’s national agencies through study of 
policy issues and strategy development related to the financial sustainability of municipal 
services. 
 
Component C: Performance-based Investment Grants
Provision of Performance-based Investment Grants to selected Participating 
Municipalities that meet the performance criteria set forth in the POM as an incentive and 
reward for improving the performance of municipal service delivery. 
 
Component D: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the capacity of the PMU, Participating Municipalities and their 
communal service enterprises for Project management, monitoring and evaluation 
through the provision of goods, consultant services, including Project audit, Training, and 
financing of Operating Costs. 
 
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project the Borrower shall maintain 
the Project Coordination Committee with a composition, resources and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
Throughout the duration of the Project the Borrower shall maintain the PMU 
responsible for overall management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project with a composition, staff, resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any 
provision of said Manual without the prior approval of the Bank. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, including Sub-projects under 
Components A and C of the Project, in accordance with the Environmental 
Assessment Management Framework and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any 
provision of said Frameworks without the prior approval of the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no Loan proceeds are used to finance activities 
which are expected to generate significant adverse, long lasting and irreversible 
environmental effects. 
3. 
For purposes of Sub-projects under Components A and C of the Project and prior 
to the commencement of works for each proposed site, the Borrower shall: (a) 
submit to the Bank for its approval: (i) the proposed site for said works and, 
where required by the EAMF and/or LARPF, the related site-specific 
environmental management plan, land acquisition and/or resettlement plan and 
checklist, said site-specific plans and checklist to be in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the proposed contract for said works to ensure 
6
that the provisions of said site-specific plans and checklist are adequately 
included in said contract; and (b) ensure that such works are carried out in 
accordance with the EAMF and/or LARPF.  
D. 
Sub-projects 
1. 
Sub-projects under Components A and C of the Project shall be selected, 
appraised, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the principles, 
procedures and requirements set forth in the POM, Procurement and Consultants 
Guidelines, Anti-Corruption Guidelines, EAMF and LARPF. 
2. 
The Borrower shall provide each Sub-loan or Grant to the selected Participating 
Municipality on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include the following:   
(a) 
each Sub-loan or Grant shall be denominated in Macedonian Denars;  
(b) 
the total maturity of each Sub-loan shall not exceed thirteen (13) years, 
including up to three (3) years of grace period, provided that the last 
repayment date of each Sub-loan shall not exceed the last repayment date 
of the Loan; 
(c) 
the interest payable by a Sub-loan recipient shall be equal to the interest 
payable by the Borrower to the Bank according to this Loan Agreement; 
and 
(d) 
under each Sub-loan Agreement and Grant Agreement the Borrower 
shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, 
including the right to:  
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the respective Participating 
Municipality to use the proceeds of the Sub-loan or 
Performance-based Investment Grant, or obtain a refund of all or 
any part of such Sub-loan or Grant, upon the Municipality’s 
failure to perform any of its obligations under the respective 
Sub-loan or Grant Agreement; and  
(ii) 
require each Participating Municipality to: (A) carry out its Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental 
and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, 
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower, the EAMF and the LARPF; (B) 
provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the 
7
purpose of the Sub-project; (C) procure the goods, works and 
services to be financed out of the Sub-loan or Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines; (D) maintain policies 
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in 
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress 
of the Sub-project and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) 
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, 
have such financial statements audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish 
the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (F) 
enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (G) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the Sub-project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Sub-loan Agreement and Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
8
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Component A of this Section, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
9
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the requirements set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule 2 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b)  Least Cost Selection 
(c)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants, including Sole-Source Selection 
(e)  
Single-Source Selection 
D. 
Operating Costs
Incremental expenditures included in the Operating Costs category can be 
procured in accordance with the established Borrower’s administrative 
procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
10 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Sub-loans under 
Component A of the 
Project 
 
15,072,650 
100% 
(2) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services and Training for 
the Project  
 
1,415,900 
100% 
(3) Grants under Component 
C of the Project 
 
2,268,000 
100% 
(4) Operating Costs 
 
96,200 
100% 
(5) Front-end Fee 
 
47,250 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
18,900,000
11 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made from the Loan Account for payments made prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
EUR 100,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but 
on or after January 1, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (2) and 
(4). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2014. 
 
12 
 
Annex to Schedule 2 
 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding 
 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in 
procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
 
(a) 
Generalities 
Bidding shall be conducted using “Open Procedures.” Furthermore, restricted 
procedure shall not be used without the express consent of the Bank and is subject to the 
following conditions: 
 
•
the contracting authority shall invite all the candidates that meet the selection 
criteria; and 
 
•
no maximum number of selected candidates shall apply. 
 
(b) 
Registration 
•
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.  
 
•
Where registration is required, bidders (1) shall be allowed a reasonable time 
to complete the registration process, and (2) shall not be denied registration 
for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully perform 
the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
 
•
Foreign bidders not from the territory of the Borrower shall not be precluded 
from bidding. If a registration process is required, a foreign bidder declared 
the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity to 
register. 
 
(c) 
Advertising, time for submission of bids 
•
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper. Invitations could be also advertised on the web sites of the 
Public Procurement Bureau and respective ministry.  
 
•
Time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less 
than thirty (30) days from the time of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later.   
 
13 
 
(d) 
Pre-qualification 
•
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) 
widely circulated national daily newspaper. Invitations could be also 
published on the web sites of the Public Procurement Bureau and respective 
ministry.  
 
•
Time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less 
than thirty (30) days from the time of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later.   
 
•
Minimum experience, and technical and financial requirements, shall be 
explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(e) 
Participation of Publicly-owned enterprises 
 
Publicly-owned enterprises shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they 
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting authority. Furthermore, they will 
be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.  
 
(f) 
Bidding Documents 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Bank for procurement of goods and works. 
 
(g) 
Bid Opening, Bid Evaluation and Contract Award 
•
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened 
simultaneously at the public bid opening. 
 
•
No bids shall be rejected at the bid opening except for late bids and bids shall 
not be evaluated as part of bid opening process. 
 
•
The economic, financial and technical capacity of the bidders cannot be 
guaranteed by another entity, except joint venture and observing those 
criteria set up in the bidding documents. 
 
•
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the quantifiable 
criteria declared in the bidding documents and evaluation criteria other than 
price shall be quantified in monetary terms. 
 
14 
 
•
Bids not substantially responsive shall be rejected. 
 
•
Extensions of bid validity will be allowed once only for not more than 30 
days.  
 
•
No further extensions shall be requested without the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
 
•
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest-evaluated and substantially responsive bid. No negotiation shall take 
place.  
 
(h) 
Rejection of all bids 
All bids shall not be rejected and a new procurement process starts without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence.  
 
(i) 
Price Adjustment 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain an 
appropriate price adjustment clause.  
 
(j) 
Securities 
•
Bid security and performance security should follow the generally accepted 
practice used in the local market.  
 
•
Alternative methods such as bid securing declaration may be acceptable, in 
which case the Borrower may require bidders to sign a declaration accepting that 
if they withdraw or modify their bids during the period of validity or they are 
awarded the contract and they fail to sign the contract or to submit a performance 
security before the deadline defined in the bidding documents, the bidder will be 
suspended for bidding in any contract with the implementing uni 
 
•
No advance payment shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance 
payment security. These securities shall be included in the bidding documents in 
a text and format acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(k) 
Right to inspect and audit 
Each contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that the 
suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect 
their accounts and records relating to the procurement and performance of the contract 
and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. The 
15 
 
deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such 
provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
(l) 
Fraud & Corruption 
 
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time determines 
that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in executing, 
a contract financed by the World Bank Group. 
 
16 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 15and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2014  
 
through February 15, 2022 
 
6.25% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.] 
17 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
18 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Assessment Management Framework” or “EAMF” means the 
Environmental Assessment Management Framework adopted by the Borrower 
and submitted to the Bank on November 11, 2008 and consisting of the set of 
mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures and procedures required under 
the Project, including Sub-projects under Components A and C of the Project, in 
order to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or 
reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement said 
measures. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
6. 
“Grant Agreement” means a grant agreement between a Participating 
Municipality and the Borrower represented by its Ministry of Finance for 
provision of a Performance-based Investment Grant under Part C of the Project 
executed in accordance with the requirements of Part D of Section I of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement and a model Grant Agreement satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
7. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” or LARPF” means the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework adopted by the Borrower 
and submitted to the Bank on November 11, 2008, which establishes the potential 
resettlement and compensation principles and procedures, organizational 
arrangements and design criteria to be applied to the Project implementation in 
compliance with the laws of the Borrower and the Bank’s safeguards policy on 
land acquisition and involuntary resettlement. 
 
8. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the PMU on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
19 
 
dissemination of Project related information and publications, office rent and 
utilities, insurance, maintenance and repair of office and equipment, insurance, 
maintenance and repair of vehicles, local travel, communication, translation and 
interpretation, bank charges, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated 
with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank. 
 
9. 
“Participating Municipalities” means municipalities of the Borrower selected to 
receive financing under the Project in accordance with the procedures and criteria 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
10. 
“Performance-based Investment Grant” or “Grant” means a grant provided or 
proposed to be provided by the Borrower to a Participating Municipality under 
Component C of the Project. 
 
11. 
“Project Coordination Committee” or “PCC” means the inter-ministerial 
committee established by the Borrower for overall Project coordination and 
supervision and referred to in paragraph 1 of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” means the project management unit 
established by the Borrower within its Ministry of Finance for day-to-day Project 
management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation and referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the operational manual adopted 
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement and setting forth the 
operational requirements, criteria, institutional arrangements and operational 
procedures for the implementation of the Project, including, inter alia,
procurement, 
financial 
management, 
disbursement, 
accounting, 
audit, 
environmental and social safeguards requirements, monitoring and evaluation 
arrangements, Sub-projects selection criteria, Sub-loans and Grants terms and 
conditions and processing procedures. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 11, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
20 
 
16. 
“Sub-loan” means a subsidiary loan provided or proposed to be provided by the 
Borrower to a Participating Municipality to finance a Sub-project under 
Component A of the Project. 
 
17. 
“Sub-loan Agreement” means a sub-loan agreement between a Participating 
Municipality and the Borrower represented by its Ministry of Finance for 
provision of a Sub-loan under Part A of the Project executed in accordance with 
the requirements of Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and a 
model Sub-loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
18. 
“Sub-project” means an investment project in the area of water and sanitation 
services, solid waste management or other revenue-generating or cost saving 
investments in communal services selected for financing under Component A or 
Component C of the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
19. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment 
rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, 
trainers’ fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs.  
 
