CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7725-AZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Additional Financing for the Second Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 28, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7725-AZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 28, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and thirteen million 
Dollars ($113,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the ARS in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account in Manat 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to finance its counterpart 
contribution to the expenditures of the Project; 
 
(b) 
make an initial deposit in Manat into the Project Account of no less than 
three million Dollars equivalent ($3,000,000) within thirty (30) days of 
the first withdrawal under the Loan, and thereafter during each following 
month deposit into the Project Account the amounts required to cover the 
Borrower’s counterpart contributions for each such quarter, as 
determined by the Borrower and the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to finance the Borrower’s counterpart contributions to the 
Project. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: that the 
Presidential Decree on the Measures to Improve Management of Transport and 
Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated February 22, 2007, or the Decree of the 
Cabinet of Ministers dated November 15, 2007 has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the ARS to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period 
of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
through the Ministries of Finance and Transport and the ARS. 
 
(b) 
The revised Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
finalized and submitted to the Bank. 
 
4
(c) 
The PIU has established budgeting arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Bank, and has hired an additional accountant with terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the ARS 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the ARS in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:  
 
 
 
142116 BNKSL 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By: /s/ Ziya Arzuman oglu Mammadov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Asad Alam 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce road transport costs and improve access, 
transit and road safety by upgrading and rehabilitating selected sections of the existing 
East-West (M4) and North-South (M3) corridors and the Hajigabul-Bahramtapa Highway 
(M6). 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following revised and 
additional parts: 
 
Part A: Rehabilitation of M6 road between Hajigabul-Bahramtapa and of local roads 
connecting rural areas to the M6 road
Provision of works, goods, technical assistance for engineering design and the 
supervision of road rehabilitation works in the East-West (M4) and North-South (M3) 
corridors and Hajigabul-Bahramtapa Highway (M6). 
 
Part B: Project Implementation and Management
Provision of technical assistance, Training and Incremental Operating Costs to 
PIU to assist in the Project implementation and management. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Transport and until the completion 
of the Project, cause the ARS to maintain the PIU and shall ensure that the PIU is 
adequately staffed by personnel with qualifications and under terms of reference 
and functions at all times in accordance with procedures necessary and 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the ARS, the Borrower shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to the ARS under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Ministries of Finance and Transport on behalf of the Borrower and 
the ARS, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank (“Subsidiary 
Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Operational Manual 
and EMF; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the 
Operational Manual and EMF, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in 
the opinion of the Bank, may materially and adversely affect the implementation 
of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall: 
8
(a) 
ensure that: (i) all activities undertaken for the purpose of carrying out of 
the Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) no activity shall be undertaken under the 
Project involving the involuntary acquisition of land or involuntary 
resettlement of occupants or owners of such land; and (iii) any such land 
required for the purposes of the Project shall be acquired on a voluntary 
basis pursuant to a memorandum of understanding between the 
owner/occupant of such land and the Borrower and acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(b) 
ensure that the selection of any road section under Part A of the Project is 
done in accordance with the provisions of the EMF; 
(c) 
ensure the complete implementation of the EMPs in a manner acceptable 
to the Bank, including all necessary measures to minimize and to 
mitigate 
any 
adverse 
environmental 
impacts 
caused 
by 
the 
implementation of the Project; and 
(d) 
maintain the ARS’s environmental management office and its 
Maintenance Department with competent staff in adequate numbers and 
with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank as shall 
enable the ARS to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation 
of the EMPs. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the ARS to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
9
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the ARS to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the ARS to have the Financial Statements related to the 
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
10 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Limited International Bidding 
(b)  
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
provisions: 
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of 
bidder; 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works 
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works 
contracts; 
(iii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a 
shareholding of whatever size shall not be invited to participate 
in tenders for the Government unless they are and can be shown 
to be legally and financially autonomous and they operate under 
commercial law; 
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the 
origin of products or labor; 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for 
their obligations; 
(vi) 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the 
purchase of bidding documents. The only charge shall be 
equivalent to the cost of producing (copying) the bidding 
documents; 
(vii) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they 
differ substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the 
procuring entity, except where the bid prices exceed the 
available budget; 
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the 
Bank; 
(ix)
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration 
11 
 
Procurement Method 
shall include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
(x) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any 
modification in the contract scope and conditions during 
implementation. 
(c)  Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b)   
Least Cost Selection 
(c)   
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)   
Single-source Selection 
(e)   
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
12 
 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(Net of VAT) 
 
(1) Goods, Works, 
Consultants’ Services 
including Audit, 
Training and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs for the Project 
 
112,717,500 
80% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
282,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars  
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
113,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2014. 
 
Section V.
Other Undertakings
13 
 
1. 
The Ministry of Transport shall, through ARS, ensure that any road works to be 
carried out under the Project with annual average daily traffic: (a) above 250 
vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 12%; (b) between 150 and 
250 vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 10%; and (c) below 150 
vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 8%, all to be calculated in 
accordance with the methodology acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of standards recommended by the European 
Committee for Standardization on design and construction of roads and highways 
or alternatively by the American Association of State Highway and 
Transportation Officials (in addition to the national standards) in the design and 
construction of road works under the Project. 
 
3. 
For detailed designs and technical specifications, no further technical review is 
needed once ARS and the Bank have agreed to the proposed detailed designs and 
the bidding documents. 
14 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
December 15, 2013 
1.74% 
June 15, 2014 
1.80% 
December 15, 2014 
1.86% 
June 15, 2015 
1.93% 
December 15, 2015 
2.00% 
June 15, 2016 
2.07% 
December 15, 2016 
2.14% 
June 15, 2017 
2.21% 
December 15, 2017 
2.29% 
June 15, 2018 
2.37% 
December 15, 2018 
2.45% 
June 15, 2019 
2.54% 
December 15, 2019 
2.63% 
June 15, 2020 
2.72% 
December 15, 2020 
2.82% 
June 15, 2021 
2.91% 
December 15, 2021 
3.02% 
June 15, 2022 
3.12% 
December 15, 2022 
3.23% 
June 15, 2023 
3.34% 
December 15, 2023 
3.46% 
June 15, 2024 
3.58% 
December 15, 2024 
3.71% 
June 15, 2025 
3.84% 
December 15, 2025 
3.97% 
June 15, 2026 
4.11% 
December 15, 2026 
4.26% 
15 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
June 15, 2027 
4.40% 
December 15, 2027 
4.56% 
June 15, 2028 
4.72% 
December 15, 2028 
4.88% 
June 15, 2029 
5.32% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
16 
 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
17 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“ARS” means the “Azerroadservice” Open Joint-stock Company, or Azerbaijan 
Road Service, which is also the Project Implementing Entity, established as an 
Open Joint-stock Company under the subordination of the Ministry of Transport 
by virtue of the Presidential Decree on the Measures to Improve Management of 
Transport and Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated February 22, 2007, and 
Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers dated November 15, 2007, whose 
responsibilities were transferred from the Road Transport Service Department 
LLC (RTSD) within the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, which was 
established by the Order of the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower (Order No. 
03) dated June 23, 2003. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“EMF” means the Environmental Management Framework, dated November 16, 
2005, outlining the procedures for the environmental screening, management, 
consultation and disclosure related to the selection of the road sections under the 
Project. 
 
6. 
“EMP/s” means the Environmental Management Plan, dated February 24, 2009, 
or any other site specific environmental management plan to be prepared by the 
Borrower during the Project implementation in accordance with the EMF and 
approved by the Bank, describing environmental mitigation, monitoring and 
institutional measures for selected road sections under the Project. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting from January 1 of 
each year. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
18 
 
9. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
PIU on account of reasonable and necessary activities directly related to the 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
travel and salaries, but excluding the salaries of the civil servants, and any other 
expenditures that may be agreed upon by the Bank. 
 
10. 
“Manat” means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
11. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
12. 
“Ministry of Transport” means the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
13. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, outlining, inter alia, the institutional, 
disbursement, procurement, and environmental and social management 
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, dated March 6, 2009, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with approval of the Bank, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Operational Manual. 
 
14. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for a Second Highway 
Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated May 16, 2006, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7356-AZ). 
 
15. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
16. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit as established by the Borrower’s 
internal order (Order No. 59k) dated August 14, 2003 within the ARS. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 19, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Project Account” means the project account used for the Borrower’s counterpart 
financing for the Project, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the ARS. 
 
19 
 
21. 
“Training” means expenses incurred by the Borrower and the PIU in connection 
with carrying out training activities under the Project including travel costs and 
per diem for local trainees and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of 
facilities and equipment and training materials and related supplies. 
 
22. 
“VAT” means the value-added tax, levied in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end 
Fee and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the 
Association (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such 
Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective 
Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan 
Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the 
advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn to 
itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing 
Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank 
or the Association or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank 
or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
20 
 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the 
Financing Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 
2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the 
Execution Date (as herein defined) or such other date as 
requested by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank, on which 
the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in the 
Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
