CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7662-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Integrated Water Management in Metropolitan São Paulo –  
Programa de Saneamento Ambiental dos Mananciais do Alto Tietê – Programa 
Mananciais - SABESP Project) 
 
between 
 
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BÁSICO DO ESTADO DE SÃO PAULO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 28, 2009 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7662-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement 
dated 
October 
28, 
2009, 
between 
COMPANHIA 
DE 
SANEAMENTO 
BÁSICO 
DO 
ESTADO 
DE 
SÃO 
PAULO 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower’s Chief 
Financial Officer (Superintendente de Finanças).
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, with the assistance of the State 
(through SSE) for overall coordination of the Project as set forth in the Implementation 
Agreement; all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:  
 
The Implementation Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and the other 
Program Executing Agencies in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 
3
The Loan has been registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
4.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on January 9, 
2011. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s Representative is 
the President of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de São Paulo 
Rua Costa Carvalho, 300 – Pinheiros  
CEP: 05429-900  
São Paulo – SP – Brasil 
Fax: (11) 3388-8669 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at São Paulo, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BÁSICO 
DO ESTADO DE SÃO PAULO 
 
By /s/ Gesner José de Oliveira Filho  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
By /s/ Rui de Britto Alvares Affonso 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to protect and maintain the quality and reliability of 
São Paulo Metropolitan Region’s water resources and potable water sources; and (b) to improve 
the quality of life of the poor populations residing in key targeted urban river basins in São Paulo 
Metropolitan Region. 
 
The Project constitutes part of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I: Institutional Development
1. 
Expansion and improvement of the Borrower’s operational and management capacity in 
the Program Area to supervise and control water quality and the hydrodynamic 
conditions of the reservoirs under its jurisdiction and to improve the operation of the 
Borrower’s various potable water systems, including, inter alia:
(a) 
carrying out of studies and diagnoses, and acquisition of equipment, to develop 
and implement: 
 
(i) 
water resources monitoring systems, including a decision support system 
for the operation of reservoirs, automated systems for raw water 
pumping stations, plans of contingency for reservoirs, silting control and 
limnology analysis. 
 
(ii) 
an improved software system to be used in the management of the 
Borrower’s laboratories for analyzing, controlling and organizing the 
results of water quality monitoring exercises; 
 
(b) 
design and implementation of hydrodynamic models and related activities for the 
Guarapiranga, Rio Grande, Taiaçupeba, Jundiaí, Biritiba, Paiva Castro and the 
Atibainha reservoirs to enable preventive and remedial action to be undertaken to 
ensure their continued operation through modeling, simulating, measuring and 
monitoring, inter alia, the reservoirs’ eutrophication episodes, the behavior of 
their sludge layers and their silting tendencies; undertaking of limnological and 
other specialist laboratory analyses; and carrying out of limnological and silting 
control studies; 
 
(c) 
carrying out of environmental and sanitary education programs for different 
target groups in the Program Area; 
 
(d) 
publishing of materials on the Project’s and the Program’ s accomplishments and 
findings; 
 
(e) 
provision of technical assistance and acquisition of equipment to improve the 
capacity of the UGL for project management including administration, 
6
procurement, financial management, safeguards, and monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project and undertaking of Project  audits; and 
 
(f) 
final evaluation of Project and Program results and impact. 
 
Part II:
Environmental Protection and Recovery
1. 
Rehabilitation and protection of Reservoirs and water production systems in the Program 
Area including, inter alia:
(a) 
conservation of Headwater Protection Areas and other environmentally sensitive 
regions under SABESP responsibility; 
 
(b) 
reduction of pollution loads and other environmental degradation in the 
tributaries and reservoirs that feed the public water supply systems; 
 
(c) 
expansion of green areas and protection of existing vegetation cover in existing 
green areas; 
 
(d) 
preparation of management plans for the following environmentally protected 
areas: Capivari, Rio Claro and Morro Grande; and 
 
(e) 
optimization and/or improvement of the capacity of the Paiva Castro and Isolina 
reservoirs through desilting and dredging. 
 
Part III:
Integrated Water Supply and Sanitation
1. 
Wastewater Management System Improvements
(a) 
Improvements to the wastewater management systems in the Program Area   
including, inter alia: construction, extension and/or improvement of: (i) 
wastewater lifting and pumping stations; (ii) gravity and pumped collector trunk 
mains and sewerage networks; and (iii) wastewater treatment plants. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of operational improvements to the Borrower’s wastewater 
management systems in the Program Area,  including inter alia: (i) installation of 
operational equipment, automated monitoring systems and software, to enhance 
the operation, control and efficiency of the existing wastewater systems; and (ii) 
construction, expansion and/or improvement of installations in the wastewater 
systems to eliminate sewage overflows. 
 
2. 
Water Supply System Improvements
Improvements to the water supply systems in the Program Area including, inter alia:
(a) 
construction, extension and/or improvement of: (i) water supply systems, 
including household supplies in low-income areas; (ii) water treatment 
7
works to improve their efficiency and reduce the pollution loads 
emanating from them including system design, operation, maintenance, 
automation, monitoring and evaluation improvements; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out of studies and analyses on the use of alternative water 
treatment technologies to reduce the amount of chemical products used 
and to minimize sludge production. 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
throughout Project implementation maintain a unit (UGL) with the powers and 
responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(b) 
no later than two months from the Effective Date have said unit fully staffed with 
personnel with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, including 
the following key staff each: a coordinator and experts to handle the technical, 
procurement, financial management and safeguard aspects of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain a representative in the CDC 
with power and responsibility set forth in the Operational Manual. 
B. 
Agreements 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement (the Implementation Agreement) 
with the Program Executing Agencies and PMSP under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth the cooperation arrangements in the 
implementation of the Project and the Program. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Implementation Agreement or any of its 
provisions. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Operational Manual 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing, inter alia:
(a) 
the functions, responsibilities and training requirements for the personnel 
responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including the UGL; 
 
9
(b) 
procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for financial 
management, disbursement and audits of the Project and respective forms, 
reports and guidelines; 
 
(c) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;  
 
(d) 
the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
and 
 
(e)  
the counterpart funding requirements of the Project. 
 
In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
E. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part II and III of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its 
approval, in accordance with the respective Resettlement Policy Framework and prior to 
initiating the bidding process for any contract for construction works that call for 
resettlement, any needed Resettlement Plan, and carry out such Resettlement Plans, in 
accordance with their terms. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, in respect of Parts II and III of the Project, undertake the related 
activities in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan, and furnish to the 
Bank any needed documentation as required by this Environmental Management Plan. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, in respect of Parts II.1 (e) of the Project: 
 
(a) 
 evaluate the related activities in accordance with the Bank’s Operational Policy 
4.37 (Safety of Dams); 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank any needed documentation including an action plan to 
address any issues as called for by the Operational Policy referred to in paragraph 
(a) above for analysis before  initiating the bidding process for any related works; 
and 
 
(c) 
if the Bank so indicates, carry out the activities of such action plan.  
 
F. 
Other Covenants 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the Bank, 
the Loan Parties, the Program Executing Agencies, and PMSP shall exchange views on 
the implementation of the Mananciais Metropolitan Program, as may be relevant for the 
successful implementation of the Program. 
10 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ Services.   All goods, works and non-
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
11 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ 
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and non-consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ Services.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consultants’ services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding including in respect of goods, works and non-
consultant services, convite, tomada de preços and concorrencia (set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law no. 8666 of June 21, 1993), pregão eletrônico (set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law no, 10520 of July 17, 2002), under COMPRASNET, the procurement 
portal of the Guarantor, or any other e-procurement system approved by the Bank, 
subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall 
be acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) Shopping  
(c)  Direct contracting  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Quality-Based Selection 
(d) Individual Consultants Based on Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
12 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General  
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works, goods, consultants’ 
and non-consultants’ services  
 
99,750,000 
90% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
      250,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate      
Caps 
and 
Interest 
Rate      
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent may be made 
13 
 
for payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2015. 
 
14 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2019  
 
through September 15, 2033 
 
3.33% 
On  March 15, 2034 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
15 
 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
16 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“CDC” means the committee established pursuant to the State’s Decree No. 52663, dated 
January 24, 2008. 
 
3. 
“CDHU” means Companhia de Desenvolvimento Habitacional e Urbano do Estado de 
São Paulo, the State’s urban development and housing company, created by the Law No. 
483 dated October 10, 1949 as amended by the State’s Decrees No. 16.512/81 dated 
January 19, 1981, No. 22061/84 dated March 28, 1984 and No. 30052/89 dated June 15, 
1989. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan for assessment and management of 
the environmental, cultural property, natural habitats and safety of dams aspects of the 
Project set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008).  
 
7. 
“Headwater Protection Area” means any environmentally protected area in which 
headwaters for potable water supplies are located, as defined in the State’s and the 
Guarantor’s legislation. 
 
8. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement (Convenio) to be entered into among 
the Program Executing Agencies and PMSP and referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.  
 
9. 
“Mananciais Metropolitan Program” means collectively the following programs: 
Mananciais, Guarapiranga e Billings, Pro-Billings, Corrego Limpo and Orla 
Guarapiranga as described in the Operational Manual. 
 
10. 
“Municipality” means any municipality in the Program Area. 
 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and approved by the Bank on January 30, 2009. 
 
12. 
“PMSP” means Municipality of São Paulo. 
 
17 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, as approved 
by the Bank on December 14, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Program” means the program, which is part of the Mananciais Metropolitan Program, 
and is designed to respond to the land-use and water resources challenges facing the São 
Paulo Metropolitan Region, all as set forth or referred to in the letters to the Bank from 
the Borrower dated October 24, 2008, SABESP dated October 22, 2008, the Municipality 
of São Bernardo do Campo dated August 21, 2008, and the Municipality of Guarulhos 
dated January 14, 2009. 
 
16. 
“Program Area” means the area comprising the municipalities of the São Paulo 
Metropolitan Region, the area comprising the Alto Tietê River Basin and the area of the 
Cantareira region’s water system. 
 
17. 
“Program Executing Agencies” means: the Borrower, SSE, SMA, CDHU, SABESP, and 
the Municipalities of São Bernardo do Campo and Guarulhos and any other entity in the 
São Paulo Metropolitan Region which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual to participate in the Program. 
 
18. 
“Reservoir” means a physical body of accumulated water used to supply raw water to the 
São Paulo Metropolitan Region’s potable water treatment and distribution systems. 
 
19. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework set forth in the Operational 
Manual defining the procedures for the involuntary resettlement of population in 
connection with the works to be carried out under the Project. 
 
20. 
“Resettlement Plan” means any plan prepared following the requirements of the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and approved by the Bank. 
 
21. 
“SABESP” means Companhia de Saneamento Básico do Estado de São Paulo, the 
State’s Water and Sanitation Utility established pursuant to the State’s Law No. 119 
published in the Official Gazette on June 30, 1973. 
 
22. 
“São Paulo Metropolitan Region” means the territory comprising the 39 municipalities 
listed in the Operational Manual and any other municipality as the Borrower and/or the 
Sate may propose based on subsequent administrative subdivisions and the Bank may 
agree.  
 
23. 
“SMA” means the State’s Secretariat for the Environment. 
 
24. 
“SSE” means the State’s Secretariat for Water, Sanitation and Energy. 
 
25. 
“State” means the State of São Paulo. 
18 
 
26. 
“UGL” means Unidade de Gerenciamento Local, the unit established within the SABESP 
pursuant to the SABESP’s Board Resolution No. 54/2007 dated February 21, 2007.  
 
27. 
“UGP” means “Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa”, the unit established within the 
Borrower’s SSE, pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 52,663 dated January 24, 2008. 
 
