CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7692-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Yunnan Urban Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 22, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 22, 2009, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in Appendix 1 to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
Appendix 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ninety million dollars ($90,000,000) 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
3
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
party to the Subsidiary Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE V – TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Yunnan Province in improving the 
effectiveness and coverage of critical urban infrastructure services in selected counties 
and the effectiveness of lake basin management in Dianchi, through investments in 
systems for the management of wastewater, water supply, solid waste, river environment 
and cultural heritage. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts to be carried out in the Project 
Counties/Cities, subject to modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1. Urban Environmental Infrastructure Development 
 
Develop critical urban environmental infrastructure in the Project Counties/Cities 
as follows: 
 
(a) 
Development of solid waste management services systems, including 
construction and expansion of sanitary landfills, associated collection, 
transportation and disposal facilities and access roads; and closure and 
remediation of existing dumpsites. 
 
(b) 
Development of wastewater and water supply systems, including construction 
and expansion of wastewater treatment plants; construction and rehabilitation of 
sewage collection  and drainage networks; and expansion and rehabilitation of 
existing water supply treatment plants and networks. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out of infrastructure investments in Lion Mountain Park, which adjoins 
the cultural heritage site of Lijiang Ancient Town in Lijiang Municipality, 
including construction of a water supply network, sewage collection and drainage 
networks, guest facilities (such as public restrooms and information centers), 
trails and access roads and landscaping; and provision of technical assistance, 
training courses and study tours to enhance the cultural conservation policies and 
practices of responsible agencies in Lijiang Municipality.  
 
(d) 
Carrying out of investments to improve management of the river environment, 
including construction and rehabilitation of river embankments, dredging of 
rivers, planting of vegetation, and construction of roads along rivers (to provide 
access along the embankment) and bridges (to enable river crossing), all to 
mitigate against erosion and floods;  and construction of latrines and composting 
facilities, biogas ponds and artificial wetlands at lake discharge points, all to 
control and scale down pollution and restore the river eco-system. 
 
6
(e) 
Provision of support for the implementation of Project activities, including:  
 
(i) 
with respect to Wenshan Prefecture, provision of technical assistance and 
equipment for supervision of environmental infrastructure construction 
and for environmental monitoring; and 
 
(ii) 
with respect to other implementing agencies and entities, provision of 
technical assistance, training courses and study tours to assist in:  
 
(A) 
detailed engineering design, design review, procurement 
management and contract supervision;  
 
(B) 
operation and management of wastewater and solid waste 
facilities; and  
 
(C) 
building capacity for Project management and operation.   
 
Part 2. Integrated Lake Basin Management 
 
Improve lake basin management in Dianchi, inter alia, through:  
 
(a) 
Development of a long-term plan for the management of the Dianchi 
lake basin. 
 
(b) 
Development of an action plan for controlling rural non-point source 
pollution of Dianchi Lake.  
 
(c) 
Carrying out of analyses of existing lake protection regulations to 
determine revisions necessary to clarify roles and responsibilities of 
institutions concerned.  
 
(d) 
Establishment of monitoring stations to enhance monitoring of water 
quality of Dianchi Lake. 
 
Part 3. Resettlement 
 
Carry out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with 
the implementation of Part 1 of the Project. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available (including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement) shall be 
recovered over a period of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of eight (8) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than March 15 and 
September 15 in each year, starting on September 15, 2010.  
 
8
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report by not later than 
March 15 and September 15 in each year after the end of each calendar semester, 
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
9
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.  In addition, the procedures to be 
followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in 
the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic 
of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall 
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
10
(iv) All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) 
to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) 
to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for 
work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to 
modify the bid as originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and records 
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not a 
dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
11
(xii) All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids 
is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall 
not take place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence.   
 
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered price 
of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope 
of the awarded contract.   
 
(xiv) The Project Implementing Entity shall have in place provisions 
for bidders to protest. 
(b) 
Shopping 
(c) 
Community Participation:  The procedures to be followed for 
community participation are as follows:  
 
(i)     Agreement: Based on an annual work plan prepared by YPMO, a 
detailed implementation agreement (“IA”) is signed between 
Project Participant or Project Company (“Contractor”), as the case 
may be, and the community (“Community”).   The IA shall 
include terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including: 
(A) scope of Project activities (“Activities”) to be carried out; (B) 
the total cost of the Activities, the source of financing and the 
agreed unit cost for each of the Activities; (C) schedule for 
implementation of the Activities; (D) the standard for carrying out 
works when implementing the Activities; (E) supervision and 
final acceptance procedures for the Activities; and (F) payment 
terms and conditions for carrying out the Activities.  
 
(ii)  Implementation: After an IA is signed, the Community mobilizes 
local villagers and shall use local equipment and materials to 
implement the Activities under technical guidance from the 
Contractor or the local technical departments.  
(iii)  Payment: Payment by the Contractor is made on the unit cost 
basis specified in the IA and against completed physical works as 
verified by the Contractor.  Every six (6) months, a special review 
is carried out by the CPMO concerned together with its local 
technical departments to verify the use of the monies paid and the 
quality of the completed works. A report of such review shall be 
provided by the Project Participant or Project Company, as the 
case may be, to the Bank within one (1) month after completion 
of the review. 
12
(iv)   Disclosure:
At least once every three (3) months,
each 
Community shall disclose to the public, information on 
implementation progress of the Activities and use of monies paid 
under the IA.  The contact telephone number and person in charge 
shall be included in said disclosure to facilitate inquiry by the 
public.    
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-based Selection 
(b)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single-source Selection 
(d)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
13
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed (inclusive 
of Taxes) 
(1) 
Works under Part 1 of the 
Project to be implemented 
in:  
 
(a) Kunming Municipality 
4,975,000 
(b) Lijiang City and 
Huaping County in 
Lijiang Municipality  
 
39,066,000 
(c) Yulong County in 
Lijiang Municipality 
 
4,488,000 
(d) Wenshan Prefecture 
22,278,000 
)
)
)
)
79%
)
)
)
(2)  Works under Part 2 of the 
Project 
394,000 
79% 
(3)  Goods under Part 1 of the 
Project to be implemented 
in:  
 
(a)  Kunming Municipality 
4,017,000 
(b) Lijiang Municipality  
4,911,000 
(c) Wenshan Municipality 
1,189,000 
)
)
100% 
)
(4) 
Goods under Part 2 of the 
Project  
3,318,000 
 
100% 
(5) 
Consultants’ services under 
Part 1 of the Project to be 
provided for: 
 
(a) Lion Mountain Park 
investments in Lijiang 
City 
 
110,000 
(b) Supporting Project 
implementation 
 
1,500,000 
)
)
)
100%
)
)
(6)  Consultants’ services under 
Part 2 of the Project  
3,529,000 
             100% 
14
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed (inclusive of 
Taxes) 
(7)  Front-end Fee 
225,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(8) 
Premium for Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar 
0
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
90,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $18,000,000 may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 
2008, for Eligible Expenditures; or   
 
(b) 
under each of Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(d), (3)(a), (3)(b), (3)(c) and 
(5)(a) until the Bank shall have notified the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity of its receipt of the Subsidiary Agreements entered 
into between the Project Participant concerned and all its Project 
Companies, satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part E, paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 
 
15
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
October 15, 2017 
1.90% 
April 15, 2018 
1.95% 
October 15, 2018 
2.00% 
April 15, 2019 
2.05% 
October 15, 2019 
2.10% 
April 15, 2020 
2.15% 
October 15, 2020 
2.20% 
April 15, 2021 
2.26% 
October 15, 2021 
2.32% 
April 15, 2022 
2.37% 
October 15, 2022 
2.43% 
April 15, 2023 
2.49% 
October 15, 2023 
2.56% 
April 15, 2024 
2.62% 
October 15, 2024 
2.69% 
April 15, 2025 
2.75% 
October 15, 2025 
2.82% 
April 15, 2026 
2.89% 
October 15, 2026 
2.96% 
April 15, 2027 
3.04% 
October 15, 2027 
3.11% 
April 15, 2028 
3.19% 
October 15, 2028 
3.27% 
April 15, 2029 
3.35% 
October 15, 2029 
3.44% 
April 15, 2030 
3.52% 
October 15, 2030 
3.61% 
16
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 15, 2031 
3.70% 
October 15, 2031 
3.79% 
April 15, 2032 
3.89% 
October 15, 2032 
3.99% 
April 15, 2033 
4.09% 
October 15, 2033 
4.19% 
April 15, 2034 
4.31% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
17
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
18
APPENDIX 1 
 
Section I 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006.  
 
4. 
The acronym “CPMO” means the County Project Management Office referred to 
in Section I, Part A, paragraph 1(e) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
6. 
The acronym “EMPs” means, collectively, the following plans all dated 
December 22, 2007, which set out, with respect to the Project, measures for: the 
protection of the environment; conservation of, and mitigation against adverse 
impact on, natural habitats or their functions; and avoidance of, or mitigation 
against, adverse impact on physical cultural resources, as well as administrative 
and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said 
plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank: 
 
(a) 
the three (3) Environmental Impact Assessments and Environmental 
Management Plans for investments under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project in 
Kunming Municipality; and the plan for control of water pollutants in 
Lake Dianchi Basin in Kunming Municipality;  
 
(b) 
the five (5) Environmental Impact Assessments and Environmental 
Management Plans for investments under Part 1 of the Project in Lijiang 
Municipality; and 
 
19
(c) 
the eight (8) Environmental Impact Assessments and Environmental 
Management Plans for investments under Part 1 of the Project in 
Wenshan Prefecture.  
 
The acronym “EMP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Project Companies, covering the 
period January 1 through December 31.  
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Non-utility Company” means, individually, each of the Project Companies 
identified in the third column (entitled “Type of Company”) of the table in 
Appendix 2 to this Agreement as a “Non-utility” company; and “Non-utility 
Companies” means, collectively, all such companies.  
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 10, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Project Company” means, individually, each of the Project companies set forth 
in the fourth column of the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, which company 
is established and operating pursuant to its:  
 
(a) 
Charter issued on the date specified in the said table; specifically, in the 
fifth column of the same row as the Project Company concerned; and  
 
(b) 
Business license issued by the relevant Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau on the date and with the license 
number specified in the said table; specifically, in the sixth and seventh 
columns of the same row as the Project Company concerned,  
 
and any successor thereto; and “Project Companies” means, collectively, all such 
companies.  
 
13. 
“Project County/City” means, individually, each of the counties and cities set 
forth in the second column of the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, and any 
20
successor thereto; and “Project Counties/Cities” means,  collectively, all such 
counties and cities. 
 
14. 
“Project Dams” means, collectively, Qinhuading Reservoir Dam in Funing 
County and Wenbihai Dam in Yulong County; and “Project Dam” means, 
individually, either of such Project Dams. 
 
15. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Borrower’s Province of Yunnan, and any 
successor thereto.  
 
16. 
“Project Municipality/Prefecture” means, individually, each of the municipalities 
and prefectures set forth in the first column of the table in Appendix 2 to this 
Agreement, and any successor thereto; and “Project Municipalities/Prefectures” 
means,  collectively, all such municipalities and prefectures. 
 
17. 
“Project Participants” means, collectively, the Project Municipalities/Prefectures 
set forth in the first column of the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement and the 
Project Counties/Cities set forth in the second column of the table in Appendix 2 
to this Agreement, and any successor thereto; and “Project Participant” means, 
individually, any of such Project Municipalities/Prefectures and Project 
Counties/Cities.  
 
18. 
The acronym “RAPs” means, collectively, the following plans which set out the 
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and 
the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on 
account of the execution of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, as well as monitoring 
and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank: 
 
(a) 
the four (4) Resettlement Action Plans, all dated August 31, 2007, for 
investments under Part 1 of the Project to be carried out in Kunming 
Municipality;  
 
(b) 
the five (5) Resettlement Action Plans, all dated September 12, 2007, for 
investments under Part 1 of the Project to be carried out in Lijiang 
Municipality;  
 
(c) 
the seven (7) Resettlement Action Plans, all dated August 29, 2007, for 
investments under Part 1 of the Project to be carried out in Wenshan 
County; and 
21
(d) 
the resettlement action plans to be prepared by the Project Participants 
pursuant to Section I, Part C, paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement and agreed to by the Bank.  
 
The acronym “RAP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
19. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy Framework 
dated December 27, 2007, which framework sets out the policies and procedures 
for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required 
during implementation of the activities described in Section I, Part C,  
paragraph 1(b)(ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Respective Non-utility Company” means in respect of each Project County/City, 
the Project Company described as a “Non-utility” company, and set forth in the 
same row as the Project County/City, in the table in Appendix 2 to this 
Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
 
21. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of: (a) each Project 
Participant, activities under the Project to be carried out within its jurisdiction; 
and (b) each Project Company, activities under the Project to be carried by said 
Project Company within the jurisdiction of the Project Participant concerned. 
 
22. 
“Respective Utility Company” means in respect of each Project County/City, the 
Project Company described as a “Utility” company, and set forth in the same row 
as the Project County/City, in the table in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means, collectively, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
be entered into between each Project County/City and its Respective Utility 
Company and the Subsidiary Agency Agreement to be entered into between each 
Project County/City and its Respective Non-utility Company pursuant to  
Section I, paragraphs E.1(a) and E.1(b) respectively of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and supplements to said agreements; and a 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means, individually, any of such Subsidiary 
Agreements. 
 
24. 
“Utility Company” means, individually, each of the Project Companies identified 
in the third column (entitled “Type of Company”) of the table in Appendix 2 to 
this Agreement as a “Utility” company; and “Utility Companies” means, 
collectively, all such companies. 
 
25. 
The acronym “YPMO” means the Yunnan Project Management Office referred 
to in Section I, Part A, paragraph 1(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
22
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
23
APPENDIX 2
Project Company is established and operating pursuant to its
Charter and Business License as follows:
Name of
Project
Municipality
/Prefecture
Name of
Project
County/City
Type of
Company
Name of
Project
Company
Date
Of
Charter
Business
License Number
Date
of
Business License
Songming
County
Non-utility
Songming Lanling Refuse Treatment
Company Limited
April 8, 2008
530127000001155
April 17, 2008
Luquan County
Non-utility
Luquan Likang Solid Waste Treatment
Company Limited
June 10, 2007
530128100000017
July 2, 2007
1. Kunming
Municipality
Xundian
County
Non-utility
Xundian County Qingxin Solid Waste
Treatment Company Limited
June 12, 2007
530129000000493
April 3, 2008
Utility
Lijiang Water Supply and Drainage
Company Limited
January 2002
5307021000017
November 19, 2002
Non-Utility
Lijiang Ancient Town Solid Waste
Disposal Plant Company
July 8, 2005
5307021000253
March 2006
Lijiang City
Non-utility
(CH)
Lijiang Ancient Town Management
Company Limited
March 20, 2006
5307001100038
March 5, 2003
Yulong County
--
--
--
--
--
2. Lijiang
Municipality
Huaping
County
Utility
Huaping Water Supply and Sewerage
Company
November 30, 2005
5307232100130
February 27, 2006
Utility
Qiubei County Water Supply Corporation
Sept. 10, 2007
5326261100068
July 26, 2006
Qiubei County
Non-utility
Puzhehei Tourism Development
Corporation Limited
June 20, 2006
5326261100181
July 3, 2006
Funing County
Non-utility
Funing County Hongxing State Asset
Company Limited
July 16, 1998
5326281100434
August 31, 1998
Guangnan
County
Utility
Guangnan County Water Supply and
Drainage Company Limited
Sept. 8, 2000
5326271100246
April 27, 2006
3. Wenshan
Prefecture
Yanshan
County
Utility
Yanshan County Water Supply Company
Limited
January 1, 2004
5326222800096
April 13, 2004
24
 
