CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7726-TN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Water Sector Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 27, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 27, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty two million nine hundred 
thousand Euro (�22,900,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MARH 
and MEDD in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
The UGO Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of UGO to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
3
(b) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Co-financing Agreement 1 has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
(b) 
The Co-financing Agreement 2 has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Development and International 
Cooperation.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
1069 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
Cable Address  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile:  
 
MCIIE  
 
18060  
 
216-71-351666/ 
216-71-799069 
 
5
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
By /s/ Mats Karlsson 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Habib Mansour 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to promote more efficient management and 
operation of selected public irrigation schemes by participating farmers; (ii) to improve 
access and consumption of drinking water for rural households in communities un-served 
or poorly serviced at the beginning of the Project; and (iii) to assist MARH, MEDD and 
other stakeholders to make better decisions relating to integrated water resources 
management. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Irrigation Management
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical advisory services, 
for the development of an effective irrigation management system, including: (i) the 
creation of about forty one (41) irrigation schemes; (ii) the modernization and 
rehabilitation of about forty six (46) existing irrigation schemes; (iii) the creation or 
improvement of surface or sub-surface drainage installations in about ten (10) existing 
irrigation schemes; (iv) the improvement of management and operation of existing 
irrigation schemes; and (v) the carrying out of analytical and capacity building activities 
for water users in the field of irrigation and drainage. 
 
Part 2: Rural Water Supply
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical advisory services, 
for the development of an effective rural water supply system, including: (i) the 
development of about one hundred and ten (110) water supply systems; (ii) the 
rehabilitation of about fifty two (52) existing water supply systems; (iii) the development 
of pilot water systems to test various alternative water provision arrangements in remote 
areas; and (iv) the carrying out of research and capacity building activities in the field of 
rural water supply. 
 
Part 3: Groundwater Management
1. 
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical advisory services, 
for the prospection of underground water resources, including the drilling of about one 
hundred and seventy three (173) medium-depth exploratory wells and about three (3) 
deep depth wells. 
 
2. 
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical advisory services, 
for the development of water resources monitoring networks, including: (i) the realization 
of about one hundred (100) observation wells of various depths; (ii) the rehabilitation and 
7
maintenance of automated data acquisition systems; and (iii) the strengthening of the 
national rainfall monitoring networks and flood warning system. 
 
3. 
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical advisory services, 
for the establishment of a comprehensive national information system on water resources, 
including: (i) the strengthening of the real time ground water monitoring system; (ii) the 
development of management models to manage aquifers; (iii) the production of an 
updated map of water resources in the territory of the Borrower; and (iv) the 
establishment of SINEAU. 
 
4. 
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical advisory services, 
for the active management of overexploited aquifers, including: (i) the carrying out of the 
inventory of water points and sampling points in major exploited aquifers; (ii) the 
development of sites for artificial aquifer recharge of the aquifers of Sbiba and Foussana 
and the Complexe Terminal aquifer at Kébili;  (iii) the preparation of a national strategy 
for artificial aquifer recharge; and (iv) supporting communities to manage overexploited 
aquifers. 
 
Part 4: Environment Protection
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical advisory services, 
for the protection of water resource, including: (i) the establishment of a system to 
monitor soil salinity and water-logging; (ii) the establishment of a water pollution 
monitoring system: (iii) carrying out pilot operations for rural sanitation in order to test 
technologies and organizational structures most appropriate in rural areas; (iv) the 
improvement of the quality of treated wastewater through the rehabilitation of the 
wastewater treatment plan of Gabes and the development of a national communication 
strategy with respect to the utilization of treated wastewater and sludge; and (v) the 
provision of training and technical advisory services to UGO, staff at central departments 
of MARH and MEDD, and CRDAs for the implementation of provisions of the 
Framework Document for Environmental and Social Protection and the Resettlement 
Policy Framework. 
 
Part 5: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. 
Carrying out research activities regarding: (i) integrated water resource 
management in selected areas; (ii) joint management of surface and ground water in 
selected areas; (iii) salinity management for small farms; and (iv) long term risk of 
salinity in the central east area of the territory of the Borrower. 
 
2.  
Provision of training to relevant stakeholders regarding: (i) mastering new water 
production and water saving technologies; (ii) agro-sciences; and (iii) post-graduate level 
specialized training. 
 
8
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services to the staff of central departments of 
MARH and MEDD, including DGFIOP and UGO, for the implementation of the Project, 
including environmental and social aspects. 
 
4.  
Establishment and maintenance of a multi-project monitoring and evaluation 
system integrating Project results, financial management and procurement. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical advisory services to DGFIOP and UGO, as applicable, for 
impact evaluation of the Project. 
9
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1.  
The Borrower shall ensure overall Project coordination through the DGFIOP. 
Day-to-day coordination of all Project activities shall be carried out by DGFIOP staff or 
UGO, as applicable. 
 
2.  
The Borrower shall vest MARH with the overall responsibility for Project 
implementation. At the central level, MARH shall execute Parts 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the 
Project and MARH and MEDD shall execute Part 4 of the Project. At the regional level, 
CRDAs shall be responsible for the identification, implementation and coordination of 
activities under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project across MARH’s regional technical units, and 
shall be involved in the implementation of relevant activities under Part 3 of the Project 
in coordination with the central departments of MARH. All Project activities shall be 
selected and carried out in accordance with the criteria and provisions set forth in the 
Procedures Manual. 
 
3.  
Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraphs 1 and 2, 
DGFIOP or UGO, as applicable, shall have additional responsibility for: (a) monitoring 
of financial and physical progress of the Project; (b) progress evaluation of the 
achievement of the Program; (c) coordination of procurement, disbursement and audit 
activities, including the formulation of financial reports; and (d) preparation of the mid-
term review and progress reports referred to in, respectively, Section I.B and Section II.A 
of this Schedule. To this end and in order to ensure proper management of the Project, the 
Borrower shall ensure that DGFIOP or UGO, as applicable: (a) maintains professional 
staffing in adequate number, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to 
the Bank; and (b) conducts operations in accordance with the Borrower’s legislation, 
including the Environmental Legislation, and the provisions of the Procedures Manual at 
all times satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.  
Not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall ensure 
that an operational monitoring and evaluation system for the Project, including baseline 
data as defined in the Procedures Manual, all satisfactory to the Bank, is in place, and 
DGFIOP officials have been trained in its use. 
5. 
Not later than one year after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall publish in the 
National Gazette: (i) the decree, satisfactory to the Bank, establishing UGO in 
compliance with the provisions of the Procedures Manual; and (ii)  the decree, 
satisfactory to the Bank, nominating the coordinator of the Project, with the rank of 
10 
 
Director, and the two individuals responsible for procurement activities and financial 
management activities, respectively, under the Project, all consistent with the provisions 
of the Procedures Manual. 
6. 
Not later than one year after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish a 
unit at MARH responsible for managing SINEAU. 
B. 
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall, through MARH: 
 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, about twenty eight (28) months after the Effective Date, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to Part D.3 of this Section and Section II. A of this 
Schedule 2, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank, about thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, 
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section I.B, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards. 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Project to be carried out in conformity with the 
provisions of the SDR, the FDESP, and the RPF; (ii) inform the Bank of any 
developments in the Environmental Legislation applicable to, and that may affect 
the implementation of, the Project; and (iii) not change, modify or otherwise 
amend said SDR, FDESP and RPF in a manner inconsistent with the Project, 
without prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause MARH to ensure that: (i) prior to the carrying out of 
any Project activities not identified, assessed, nor included in the FDESP, such 
11 
 
activities shall be subject to an Environmental Assessment, under terms of 
reference and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) mitigating 
and monitoring measures for impacts of said activities are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the SDR and the FDESP.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, in the context of the reports referred to in Section II.A of this 
Schedule, cause to be prepared and provided to the Bank for its review reports on 
the application of the provisions of the FDESP to Project activities. The Bank 
may provide comments as appropriate on said reports, notably to agree with 
MARH on remedial actions to be taken by MARH to achieve compliance with 
the SDR, the FDESP and the RPF. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any activity under Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project, 
requiring land acquisition is carried out in accordance with the RPF. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
12 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I 
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
provisions: 
a.  
The bidding document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award 
criteria and bidder qualification criteria; 
b.  
Any bidder registered in an eligible country, as defined in 
paragraphs 1.6 to 1.8 of the Procurement Guidelines will be eligible 
to bid; therefore no restriction based on nationality of bidders or 
origin of goods shall apply and foreign bidders shall not be subject 
to any unjustified requirement which will affect their ability to bid; 
c.  
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
participate only if they can establish that they (i) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law, and (iii) 
13 
 
are independent from contracting entity; 
d.  
Bidders will be allowed to deliver their bids by mail or by hand 
before the expiration of the deadline for submitting bids; 
e.  
Technical and financial envelopes are submitted together and 
opened in public, simultaneously during a unique session open to 
the public for works, goods and non-consulting services; amounts 
shall be read aloud during the public session; bidders or their 
representatives are authorized to attend the bid opening session. The 
date, time and place for bid opening shall be announced in the 
invitation to bid; these date and time shall be the same as for the 
deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter; 
f.  
Bids are evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in the 
bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms and contracts 
are awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the lowest 
evaluated responsive bid, and price shall not be negotiated with the 
lowest evaluated bidder except under the provisions stated in 
paragraph 2.63 of the Procurement Guidelines; 
g.  
Procedures will include the publication of the evaluation results, the 
contract award and provision for bidders to protest; 
h.  
If foreign firms wish to participate, they shall be allowed to do so 
and no provision for preferential treatment of national firms or 
mandatory association with a national firm or prior registration in 
the country of the Borrower shall be applied; 
i.  
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding 
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding 
procurement must be submitted to and found acceptable by the 
Bank; and  
j.  
Each bidding document and contract for goods and works to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that the 
supplier, contractor and subcontractor shall permit the Bank, at its 
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid 
submission and performance of the contract, and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or 
subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
14 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
15 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(exclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) Goods, works, 
consultants’ services 
and training for the 
Project 
 
22,842,750 
25% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
        
57,250 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
22,900,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed �750,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after April 13, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category (1). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2015.
16 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
July 15, 2015 
January 15, 2016 
July 15, 2016 
January 15, 2017 
July 15, 2017 
January 15, 2018 
July 15, 2018 
January 15, 2019 
July 15, 2019 
January 15, 2020 
July 15, 2020 
January 15, 2021 
July 15, 2021 
January 15, 2022 
July 15, 2022 
January 15, 2023 
July 15, 2023 
January 15, 2024 
July 15, 2024 
January 15, 2025 
July 15, 2025 
January 15, 2026 
July 15, 2026 
January 15, 2027 
 
2.0 
 
2.5 
 
2.5 
 
2.0 
 
0.0 
 
3.0 
 
4.0 
 
4.0 
 
4.0 
 
0.0 
 
0.0 
 
2.0 
 
2.0 
 
1.0 
 
0.0 
 
3.0 
 
4.0 
 
4.0 
 
4.0 
 
3.0 
 
3.0 
 
3.0 
 
3.0 
 
0.0 
17 
 
July 15, 2027 
January 15, 2028 
July 15, 2028 
January 15, 2029 
July 15, 2029 
January 15, 2030 
July 15, 2030 
January 15, 2031 
July 15, 2031 
January 15, 2032 
July 15, 2032 
January 15, 2033 
July 15, 2033 
January 15, 2034 
July 15, 2034 
January 15, 2035 
July 15, 2035 
January 15, 2036 
July 15, 2036 
January 15, 2037 
July 15, 2037 
January 15, 2038 
July 15, 2038 
January 15, 2039 
 
0.0 
 
2.0 
 
3.0 
 
3.0 
 
2.0 
 
1.0 
 
0.0 
 
0.0 
 
2.0 
 
3.0 
 
3.0 
 
0.0 
 
0.0 
 
2.0 
 
3.0 
 
2.0 
 
2.0 
 
2.5 
 
3.0 
 
2.0 
 
2.0 
 
2.0 
 
2.0 
 
2.5 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
18 
 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
19 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Co-financier 1” means the French Development Agency (Agence Française de
Développement), referred to in paragraph 15 of the Appendix to the General 
Conditions. 
4. 
“Co-financier 2” means the African Development Bank, referred to in paragraph 
15 of the Appendix to the General Conditions. 
5. 
“Co-financing 1” means an amount of forty five million Euros (EUR 45,000,000) 
to be provided by the Co-financier 1 to assist in financing the Project. 
6. 
“Co-financing 2” means an amount of twenty two million nine hundred ten 
thousand Euros (EUR 22,910,000) to be provided by the Co-financier 2 to assist 
in financing the Project. 
7. 
“Co-financing Agreement 1” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Co-financier 1 providing for the Co-financing 1. 
8. 
“Co-financing Agreement 2” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Co-financier 2 providing for the Co-financing 2. 
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
10. 
“CRDA” means Commissariat Régional au Développement Agricole, the 
Borrower’s 
Regional 
Commissariat 
for 
Agriculture 
Development, 
an 
administrative public institution (“établissement public à caractère administratif”) 
established and operated pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 89-44 dated March 
8, 1989, and its related implementing decrees. 
11. 
“DGFIOP” means Direction Générale du Financement, des Investissements et
des Organismes Professionnels, the Borrower’s General Directorate of Finance, 
Investment and Professional Organizations within MARH. 
20 
 
12. 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means an environmental assessment, 
acceptable to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the 
Borrowers' Environmental Legislation described in the SDR and the FDESP, 
evaluating the environmental impact of Project activities and setting forth the 
mitigating, institutional, and monitoring measures for activities undertaken under 
Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project. 
13. 
“Environmental Legislation” means the Borrower’s set of laws, decrees, arrêtés
or decisions described in the SDR and the DCPES, including, but not limited to 
legislation and relevant implementing regulations applicable to environmental 
impact assessments, and legislation governing air, water and soil protection and 
emission standards, and all secondary legislation related thereto. 
14. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” mean a plan to be 
prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the FDESP. 
15. 
Framework Document for Environmental and Social Protection" or "FDESP", 
mean the Borrower's document, dated November 18, 2008, attached to the SDR 
and describing: (i) the overall legal and regulatory framework applicable to the 
Project; (ii) the environmental analysis of the Project components, (iii) the EA 
processes applied by MARH, including implementation of ESMPs; (iv) 
environmental supervision and monitoring, (v) training and capacity 
strengthening, and (vi) budget, all as they shall be applied to Project activities 
consistent with the Environmental Legislation and the same as they may be 
amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
16. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
17. 
“MARH” means Ministère de l’Agriculture et des Ressources Hydrauliques, the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto. 
18. 
“MEDD” means Ministère de l’Environnement et du Développement Durable,
the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto. 
19. 
“Procedures Manual” means the manual describing the implementation, financial 
management, procurement, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, and 
reporting arrangements for the Project, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
21 
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 17, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
22. 
“Program” means the program designed to strengthen the Borrower’s water 
sector and set forth or referred to in the letter dated May 5, 2000 from the 
Borrower to the Bank. 
23. 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" mean the Borrower’s policy 
framework adopted on December 16, 2008, providing procedures and guidelines 
for the preparation, adoption, implementation and monitoring of a land 
acquisition plan or plans, as said RPF may be amended from time to time with 
the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
24. 
“Safeguard Diagnostic Review" and "SDR" mean the report dated November 26, 
2008, prepared by the Bank in collaboration with the Borrower, for the purpose 
of using the Borrower’s environmental assessment system for the preparation and 
implementation of the Project and disclosed in Tunisia on December 16, 2008 
and on the World Bank InfoShop on December 19, 2008. 
25. 
“SINEAU” means Système National d’Information sur l’Eau, the Borrower’s 
National Water Information System. 
26. 
“UGO” means Unité de Gestion par Objectifs, the Borrower’s Management Unit   
for the Project functioning on the basis of objectives, to be established within 
DGFIOP not later than one year after the Effective Date. 
27. 
“UGO Legislation” means the decree establishing UGO referred to in Section 
I.A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
22 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and 
as 
further 
specified 
in 
the 
Conversion 
Guidelines.”
 
