CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7777-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Reform Project – Second Phase (PARSS2)) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 30, 2009  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7777-DO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 30, 2009, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million and five hundred thousand Dollars 
($30,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
-2- 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project through CERSS 
and Parts B and D through MOH in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the 
Borrower has retained a procurement specialist at DDEI with qualifications and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, 
but in no case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on March 17, 2011. 
 
-3- 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretario de Estado de Hacienda.
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Estado de Hacienda  
 
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
 
Santo Domingo, Apartado Postal 1478 
República Dominicana 
 
Tel:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(809) 687-5131  
(809) 688-8838 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-4- 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Roberto Saladín Selín 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 
 
Authorized Representative 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve: (i) the capacity of the Borrower’s RHSs to 
deliver in a timely fashion quality services known to improve the health of mothers, children and 
people with chronic conditions by public providers at the first level of care; and (ii) health system 
responsiveness, defined as the institutional capacity of public sector health organizations to 
conduct strategic purchasing of health care services and goods and to respond to public health 
emergencies. 
 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Introduction of a Results-Based Financing Mechanism for the First-Level of Care in RHS
Financing of Capitation Transfers to Eligible RHSs to help ensure access by Eligible 
Beneficiaries to a package of basic ambulatory primary health care services (Basic FHI 
Services Package).  
 
Part B: Strengthening of the MOH’s Capacity to Improve and Monitor Health System 
Responsiveness While Fostering Transparency and Accountability 
1. 
Strengthening of MOH’s strategic planning and evaluation capacity to improve 
transparency and accountability with an emphasis on improving health system 
responsiveness, through, inter alia: (i) capacity building activities for the MOH to 
exercise its stewardship role under the Health Sector Reform Laws by: (A) financing the 
organizational changes required by the Health Sector Reform Laws (including the 
decentralization of the RHSs); and (B) strengthening and ensuring the continuity of 
health promotion and prevention interventions, public health emergency preparedness, 
and the epidemiologic surveillance system; (ii) the improvement of policies and 
information collection mechanisms regarding the primary health care level (including 
inpatient care) and the provision of support for the dissemination activities carried out by 
the MOH’s Office of Access to Public Information (Oficina de Acceso Público a la 
Información); (iii) the provision of support for the preparation of the MOH’s second ten-
year health sector plan; (iv) assistance in connection with the monitoring and 
implementation of the Borrower’s new biomedical waste management regulations; (v) the 
preparation of key studies and household surveys necessary for the next demographic and 
health survey to be prepared by the MOH; and (vi) the strengthening of the DDEI 
(including through the financing of the incremental Operating Costs of the PIU at DDEI). 
 
2. 
Strengthening of MOH’s and the RHSs’ existing monitoring, information and evaluation 
systems for results-based financing through, inter alia: (i) capacity building activities for 
the MOH’s National Office for Monitoring and Evaluation (Unidad de Monitoreo y 
Evaluación de la DDEI); (ii) the development of a specific information module on formal 
assignments and service delivery at the first level of care in the RHSs; and (iii) activities 
oriented to the incorporation of patient satisfaction and social audits into the Results 
Monitoring Indicators. 
 
-6- 
 
Part C: Improving the Quality of Public Spending on Health Care Goods and Services
1. 
Strengthening of public sector planning, procurement, and distribution of medicines and 
other medical inputs by PROMESE/CAL, with an emphasis on improving monitoring 
and evaluation as well as access by the poor to quality medicines at the first level of care, 
through: (i) the provision of technical assistance; (ii) the carrying out of Training; and 
(iii) the financing of goods (e.g., software), equipment and Non-Consultant Services. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of NHI and other key stakeholders (including 
MEPD and MOF) to consolidate and expand the subsidized regime for the provision of 
health insurance, through: (i) the provision of technical assistance; (ii) the carrying out of 
Training; and (iii) the financing of equipment and other goods, consulting and Non-
Consultant Services, and Operating Costs. 
 
3. 
Support for the overall coordination of the Project, including the financing of: (i) the 
financial audits of the Project; (ii) Operating Costs under Parts A and C of the Project 
(including NHI’s Operating Costs) for the implementation of those activities; and (iii) the 
development and execution of external audits to ensure that the services rendered under 
Part A of the Project are adequately delivered and the reported levels of achieved results 
are accurate and verifiable. 
 
Part D: Support for Response to Public Health Emergencies
Strengthening of the MOH’s capacity to coordinate and implement interventions to 
ensure a swift and efficient response by the health system to Health Emergencies 
involving major challenges to the public health (including the influenza virus A/H1N1), 
through the financing of, inter alia, educational and communication campaigns, training 
for emergency preparedness, Operating Costs for strengthening epidemiological 
surveillance, as well as medicines, vaccines, and other medical inputs such as laboratory 
reagents and masks. 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Not later than 30 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall establish, and 
thereafter maintain during the implementation of the Project, the following committees, 
each of them with a mandate, terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the 
Bank: 
(a) 
a Project Oversight Committee (Comité Directivo de Proyecto) comprising the 
Borrower’s Minister of Health, Minister of Economy, Planning and 
Development, Director of NHI, Director of PROMESE/CAL, and Director of 
CERSS, responsible for overseeing overall Project implementation, approving 
Project priorities and decisions, and the Project’s annual Results Monitoring 
Indicators; and 
(b) 
a Results-based Financing Committee (Comité de Financiamiento por 
Resultados) comprising representatives of MOH, MEPD, NHI, and the PCU, 
responsible for overseeing the day-to-day implementation of the results-based 
financing to the Eligible RHSs, as well as for providing technical advice and 
inter-institutional coordination needed for the appropriate implementation of Part 
A and other related activities under Parts B and C of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain during the implementation of the Project the following 
units, each of them consisting of staff having experience and qualifications satisfactory at 
all times to the Bank: 
(a) 
a PCU within CERSS responsible for: (i) overall Project coordination; and (ii) 
implementation of Parts A and C of the Project, with the assistance of NHI; and 
(b) 
a PIU within DDEI at MOH, responsible for the management coordination, 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Parts B and D of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MOH, MEPD, CERSS, NHI and PROMESE/CAL 
operate during the implementation of the Project in accordance with the Inter-
Institutional Agreement dated July 30, 2009, with a view to ensuring the accelerated 
implementation of Health Sector Reform Laws and the introduction of mechanisms for 
improved results-based financing and accountability. 
B. 
Implementation of Capitation Transfers to Eligible RHSs under Part A of the 
Project 
 
1. 
For purposes of implementing Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MOH 
and CERSS and in coordination with the NHI: 
 
-8- 
 
(a) 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date, enter into annual Performance 
Agreements with each Eligible RHS participating in the Project, in a form and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which agreement shall include, inter alia, the 
following provisions: 
 
(i) 
The Eligible RHS’s obligation to: 
(A) 
carry out the Performance Agreement and meet the targets 
against Results Monitoring Indicators specified or referred to 
therein; 
(B) 
ensure, under the Capitation Transfers payment mechanism, that 
only services related to the delivery of the Basic FHI Services 
Package are being paid for; 
(C) 
keep records and accounts of expenditures incurred for the 
delivery of the Basic FHI Services Package; 
(D) 
undertake selected data collection activities relevant to the 
maintenance and update of the monitoring and information 
system for the Project, with a view to generate information 
pertinent to the implementation of Part A of the Project; and 
(E) 
comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
(ii) 
The technical aspects of the Capitation Transfers and the delivery of the 
Basic FHI Services Package, including: (A) the financing mechanisms 
for the delivery of the Basic FHI Services Package in the corresponding 
Eligible RHS; (B) the annual Results Monitoring Indicators; and (C) 
annual operational plans for implementation of the Project, all on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
(iii)  
The parties’ obligation to exercise their rights and carry out their 
obligations under each Performance Agreement in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and in compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement and the Operational Manual. 
(iv) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MOH, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Performance Agreement or any provision thereof. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure, through MOH, that the annual Performance 
Agreements for the Project: (i) follow the model form included in the Operational 
Manual; and (ii) are submitted to the Bank for their prior review and approval. 
2. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, prior to a request for financing of Capitation Transfers, 
shall: (a) establish a separate Capitation Transfer Fund Account; and (b) ensure that all 
amounts deposited in the Capitation Transfer Fund Account are used exclusively to make 
-9- 
 
payments for ensuring access to the Basic FHI Services Package to Eligible 
Beneficiaries. 
3. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, with the assistance of the NHI, shall, pursuant to each 
Performance Agreement:  
(a) 
make Capitation Transfers available to Eligible RHSs in accordance with detailed 
provisions, procedures, sequencing and timing  in relation thereto set forth in  the 
Operational Manual and the respective Performance Agreement, and to include, 
inter alia, the following requirements: 
(i) 
During a period ending eight months after a first request for withdrawal 
shall have been made by the Borrower out of Category 1 of the table set 
forth in Section IV. A. 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
through the PCU, shall, no later than ten days thereof, proceed to make 
available 100% of the Capitation Transfers in respect of Eligible 
Beneficiaries after validation is made by NHI of the estimated number of 
Eligible Beneficiaries in each of the Borrower’s participating RHS. No 
later than four months from the end of the above eight-month period, 
NHI shall reconcile such estimates against the certified number of 
Eligible Beneficiaries and make any necessary adjustments in subsequent 
Capitation Transfers to compensate for any difference. 
 
(ii) 
Thereafter, the Capitation Transfers shall be made available to the 
Eligible RHS in two installments. The first such installment shall be 50% 
of the total amount of the Capitation Transfer, paid on a monthly basis 
upon certification and validation by NHI of a registry of eligible 
beneficiaries sent by the Eligible RHS for the corresponding month. The 
second installment for an amount up to the remaining 50% thereof, shall 
be paid every four months upon verification by NHI of the Eligible 
RHS’s performance against agreed targets from the Results Monitoring 
Indicators, all as set forth in the Operational Manual and the Performance 
Agreements.  
 
(iii) 
The certification and validation of the estimated number of Eligible 
Beneficiaries (including during the initial eight-month period referred to 
in item (i), above) and of Eligible RHS’s performance against agreed 
targets from the Results Monitoring Indicators shall be made by NHI 
through the use of independent external technical audits to run 
concurrently with the implementation of the relevant activities under Part 
A of the Project and to be carried out by auditors  appointed in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
such audit reports to be furnished to the Bank within 30 days following 
the last audited period of four months. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
verify and report, through the use of financial audits to be carried out by 
independent auditors appointed in accordance with Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference 
-10- 
 
previously agreed with the Bank and as further specified in the 
Operational Manual, that the Capitation Transfers have been used for the 
purposes intended; 
 
(ii) 
ensure, as part of such audits, that the flow of funds in respect of the 
Capitation Transfers is in compliance with the relevant provisions of the 
Operational Manual and that the per capita amount used to calculate the 
Capitation Transfers is not higher than the actual cost of offering the 
Basic FHI Services Package (whether Eligible Beneficiaries use such 
services or not); and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that the ensuing reports are furnished to the Bank not later than 4 
months after the end of each Fiscal Year; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that, under each budget proposal to its legislature for the corresponding 
year during Project implementation, adequate arrangements are made by the 
Borrower to gradually assume a portion of the costs related to the Capitation 
Transfers which are financed on a declining basis out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as set forth in Category 1 of the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the PCU, the MOH and NHI, shall ensure that: (a) annual 
reviews of selected activities of Project implementation described in the Operational 
Manual, including of the Capitation Transfers mechanism, the menu of services of the 
Basic FHI Services Package and the Results Monitoring Indicators, are carried out 
jointly with the Bank; and (b) the implementation of the Project is subsequently carried 
out applying the views and recommendations of the Bank in that respect. 
 
C. 
Operational Manual 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the project in accordance with a manual (the Operational 
Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the rules, methods, guidelines, 
standard documents and  procedures for the carrying out of the relevant parts of the 
Project, including the following: 
(i) 
the detailed description of Project implementation activities and the 
detailed institutional arrangements of the Project, including the Inter-
Institutional Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
Annex 1 to the Aide Memoire signed by the Borrower and the Bank on 
June 26, 2009; 
 
(iii) 
(A) the criteria, means of determining the per capita cost, detailed rules 
and procedures for Capitation Transfers and the delivery of the Basic 
FHI Services Package by the Eligible RHSs under Performance 
Agreements to be entered with MOH and CERSS; (B) details of the 
contents and procedures for the carrying out of all financial and technical 
audits as well as (once a methodology is developed during Project 
implementation) social audits related to the delivery of the Basic FHI 
-11- 
 
Services Package; and (C) a detailed description of all the services under 
the Basic FHI Services Package; 
 
(iv) 
a model form for the annual Performance Agreements; 
 
(v) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial 
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and 
disbursement 
procedures 
(including 
customized 
statements 
of 
expenditures and all pertinent standard documents and model contracts in 
relation thereto);  
 
(vi) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project, including all 
environmental, physical, social and information technology related 
aspects in relation thereto; and 
 
(vii) 
the Results Monitoring Indicators for the Project. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
written consent. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. 
Other Covenants 
1. 
In the case that by no later than two years and six months after the Effective Date a 
Health Emergency has not occurred and/or the Bank has not provided its written no 
objection for the disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part D of the 
Project, the resources allocated to Part D of the Project may be used at the request of the 
Borrower to finance activities under Part A, B, or C of the Project. Not later than two 
months from that date, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its approval, a proposal 
of how the resources under Part D of the Project will be allocated. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the PCU at CERSS, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and set 
forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of four 
months, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
-12- 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through the PCU and the PIU, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of a four month period,  interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the four month period, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year.  The audited Financial Statements 
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the 
end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
The Capitation Transfers shall not be subject to the Procurement and Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  All goods and Non-Consultant Services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
4. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
-13- 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services.
The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-Consultant Services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget  
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
-14- 
 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Capitation Transfers under 
Part A of the Project 
14,523,750 
100% 
until 
disbursements 
under 
this 
category 
have 
reached 
an 
amount 
of 
US$1,350,000; 80% until such 
disbursements have reached an 
amount 
of 
US$3,405,000; 
70% until such disbursements 
have reached an amount of 
US$7,380,000; 
and 
60% 
thereafter. 
(2) 
Goods, 
Non-consultant 
Services, 
consultants’ 
services, 
Training 
and 
Operating  Costs under Part B 
of the Project 
7,000,000 
70% 
(3) 
Goods, 
Non-consultant 
Services, consultants’ services 
(including audits), Training 
and Operating  Costs under 
Part C of the Project 
8,800,000 
70% 
(4) 
Goods, 
Non-consultant 
Services, 
consultants’ 
services, 
Training 
and 
Operating  Costs under Part D 
of the Project 
100,000 
100% 
(5) Front-end Fee 
76,250 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(6) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.07 
(c) 
of 
this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
30,500,000 
-15- 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made 
under Category (4) for goods, Non-Consultant Services, consultants’ services, Training 
and Operating Costs under Part D of the Project, unless a Health Emergency has been 
declared by the Borrower through a Ministerial Resolution to be issued by the Minister of 
Health, and the Bank has provided its prior written no objection to the Action Plan to be 
implemented. 
2. 
The Closing Date is October 30, 2015. 
 
-16- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on May 15, 2027. 
-17- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Action Plan” means the operational and procurement plans to be developed by the 
Borrower to respond to any Health Emergency. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Basic FHI Services Package” means a package of basic ambulatory primary health care 
services for the first-level of care (as defined by NHI) provided under the Borrower’s 
Family Health Insurance (Seguro Familiar de Salud) for the enrollees of the subsidized 
regime (Régimen Subsidiado) and delivered under Part A of the Project to Eligible 
Beneficiaries in Eligible RHSs, as further specified in the Operational Manual. 
 
4. 
“Capitation Transfers” means financial resources transferred by the PCU at CERSS under 
the Project to Eligible RHSs (as hereinafter defined), calculated as the monthly per capita 
amount needed to ensure access by Eligible Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined) to the 
Basic FHI Services Package (as hereinafter defined), as further referred to in Section I.B 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5. 
“Capitation Transfer Fund Account” means the account opened and managed by CERSS 
to receive Capitation Transfers out of the proceeds of the Loan to be disbursed pursuant 
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined). 
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
7. 
“CERSS” means the Borrower’s Executive Commission for Health Sector Reform 
(Comisión Ejecutiva para la Reforma del Sector Salud), established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 308-97 of July 10, 1997, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
9. 
“DDEI” means the Borrower’s Directorate of Institutional Strategic Development 
(Dirección de Desarrollo Estratégico Institucional), a department within MOH. 
 
10. 
“Eligible Beneficiaries” means any individual from a poor household in the jurisdiction 
of each Eligible RHS and which is eligible to receive the Basic FHI Services Package in 
accordance with the Operational Manual. 
 
11. 
“Eligible RHS” means each RHS (as hereinafter defined) meeting the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual to implement the activities under Part A of the 
Project. 
-18- 
 
12. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting on January 1 until December 
31. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
14. 
“Health Emergency” means a serious and unforeseen public health emergency of national 
or international concern that has been: (i) determined as such in accordance with Annex 
VII of the Operational Manual; and (ii) formally declared by the Borrower’s Minister of 
Health through a Ministerial Resolution, in accordance with the Borrower’s Law 42-01, 
dated March 8, 2001.  
 
15. 
“Health Sector Reform Laws” means the Borrower’s Law 42-01, dated March 8, 2001, 
which established the legal framework for a national health system; and the Borrower’s 
Law 87-01, dated May 9, 2001, which established the legal framework for the Borrower’s 
new social security system. 
 
16. 
“Inter-Institutional Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“MEPD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, Planning and Development 
(Secretaría de Estado de Economía, Planificación y Desarrollo). 
 
18. 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Estado de Hacienda). 
 
19. 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health (Secretaría de Estado de Salud 
Pública y Asistencia Social). 
 
20. 
“NHI” means the Borrower’s National Health Insurance Agency (Seguro Nacional de 
Salud, SENASA), established pursuant to Law 87-01 of the Borrower, dated May 9, 
2001. 
 
21. 
“Non-consultant Services” means services to be contracted for, inter alia, social 
communication campaigns, including surveys and outreach programs and information 
technology (IT) connection. 
 
22. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project 
implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and 
supervision costs and salaries of locally contracted employees. 
 
23. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated August 5, 2009, approved by the Bank, 
and referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written consent. 
 
-19- 
 
24. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit established within CERSS and responsible 
for the implementation of Parts A and C of the Project, as further described in Section 
I.A.2.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
25. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementing Unit established within DDEI and responsible for 
the implementation of Parts B and D of the Project, as further described in Section 
I.A.2.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Performance Agreement” means an agreement entered into annually among MOH, 
CERSS and an Eligible RHS for the delivery of the Basic FHI Services Package to 
Eligible Beneficiaries under Part A of the Project, as referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
27. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
28. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
August 5, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
29. 
“Program” means the Borrower’s Programa de Apoyo al Sector Salud (PARSS), a 
program designed to reform the Borrower’s health sector and set forth or referred to in 
the letter dated April 9, 2003 from the Borrower to the Bank. 
 
30. 
“PROMESE/CAL” means the Borrower’s Program of Supply of Essential Medicines and 
Office for Logistical Support (Programa de Medicamentos Esenciales y Central de 
Abastecimiento y Logística), established as an entity dependent from the Presidency of 
the Republic and responsible for the purchase and distribution of medicines, pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decree No.991-00 of October 18, 2000. 
 
31. 
“Results Monitoring Indicators” means the list of ten indicators included in the 
Operational Manual which shall be included in each Performance Agreement, together 
with the agreed targets, in order to determine the percentage of each Capitation Transfer 
to be made by the Borrower and disbursed by the Bank. 
 
32. 
“RHS” means a Regional Health Service (Servicio Regional de Salud), a regional public 
sector network of health care providers which include health centers and clinics in charge 
of providing basic health services in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
33. 
“Training” means: (a) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred 
by trainers and trainees in connection with their training and by community health 
workers; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d) training material preparation, 
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
-20- 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05. Eligible Expenditures 
 
(a) The payment for the financing of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services or 
Capitation Transfers required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and procured, all in accordance with the provisions of the Legal 
Agreements;” 
 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Variable Rate” is modified, in relevant part, to read as 
follows: 
 
“(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an amount of 
the Withdrawn Loan Balance that accrues interest at a variable rate during the 
Conversion Period, the variable rate of interest applicable to such amount shall 
be equal to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR,  or such other base rate as may be 
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, for the Approved Currency; plus (B) the 
spread to LIBOR or to such other base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the 
Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the 
Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the interest 
rate component of the Screen Rate.” 
 
