CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7677-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Roads and Safety Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 21, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 21, 2009, between UKRAINE (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million dollars 
($400,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by both parties thereto. 
 
(b) 
The Project Operations Manual has been approved and adopted by the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(c) 
The Project Implementing Entity has provided evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank of its adoption of the GAC Action Plan. 
 
3
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized by the parties thereto and is 
legally binding thereon in accordance with its terms. 
 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.04. 
Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties 
hereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.02 of the General 
Conditions. Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending 
agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5. 01. The Borrower’s Representative is Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
Kyiv, 01008 
Ukraine 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
131450  
 
(380-44) 253-82-43 
 
(380-44)201-56-85 
 
 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Vadym Gurzhos 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Martin Raiser 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the condition and quality of sections 
of the M-03 road and to increase safety on roads. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Road Rehabilitation 
Rehabilitation of about 120 kilometers of the Kyiv-Kharkiv-Dovzhansky road, 
including civil works for the rehabilitation/strengthening of the existing road. 
 
Part 2: Road Safety Improvement
Carrying out a program of safety measures at traffic accident black spots on 
roads (about 110 black spots will be targeted) including supply and installation of 
safety improvements.. 
 
Part 3: Institutional Capacity Building
Provision of technical advisory services, training and equipment to enhance road 
management within the territory of the Borrower according to international 
practice, including: 
 
(a) 
improvement of  Ukrainian norms,  rules and standards in the design, 
construction, repair and maintenance of roads;  
 
(b)  modernization 
of 
road 
management 
and 
operations, 
including 
implementing performance based contracts and introducing systems for 
planning and programming road works; and 
 
(c)  
introduction of international “best practice” contracting in the road sector. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity carries out 
Project implementation and management with due diligence and efficiency.  
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity carries out the 
Project in accordance with the polices and procedures set forth in the Project 
Operations Manual and shall not alter, amend, vary or waive any provision of the 
Project Operations Manual without consultation with, and the prior consent of, 
the Bank.  
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
1. 
To facilitate the Project Implementing Entity’s implementation of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make the Loan proceeds available to the Project Implementing 
Entity under a subsidiary agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Bank, which shall include provisions setting forth that the Project Implementing 
Entity shall be responsible for the overall day-to-day implementation and 
management of the Project (“Subsidiary Agreement”) and shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Project Operations Manual and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines.  
2. 
The Borrower, through MOF, shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project. The Subsidiary Agreement, 
or any provision thereof, shall not be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived 
without the Bank’s prior consent. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
7
D. 
Safeguards 
1. 
Environmental Safeguards
(a)  
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying 
out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner 
and that all legal and administrative planning and environmental permits and 
authorizations necessary to carry out  the Project are secured in a timely manner 
and with due diligence. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity takes all 
measures necessary and identified under the Environmental Management Plan at 
all times in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the 
implementation of said measures is suitably included in the Project progress 
reports to be prepared pursuant to the provisions of Section II.A of this Schedule. 
2. 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
In the event that land acquisition or resettlement is required for the 
purposes of carrying out activities under Part 1 or Part 2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
 notify the Bank or  ensure that the Project Implementing Entity 
notifies the Bank, of any intended acquisition of land and/or resettlement, in 
whole or in part, and of each Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan (if any) 
prepared in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework;  
of any of the following: residences, agricultural holdings, commercial structures 
and businesses; and/or land used by people without claim to legal title; and/or 
persons affected by Project activities; 
 
(b) 
disclose, or ensure that the Project Implementing Entity 
discloses, the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework and each Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Plan (if any) prepared under the Project and all 
relevant information relating thereto in a manner satisfactory to the Bank no less 
than sixty (60) days prior to carrying out any land acquisition and/or 
resettlement; and 
 
(c) 
 ensure that the Project Implementing Entity causes all land 
acquisition and resettlement under the Project to be undertaken in accordance 
with the provisions and procedures contained in the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Framework and the respective Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Plan, and that all relevant information is adequately provided to all affected 
persons, and potentially affected persons, in a timely and adequate manner. 
8
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity monitors and 
evaluates the progress of the Project and prepares Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one quarter of one calendar year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity prepares on or 
about March 31, in each year of the Project, commencing March 31, 2010: 
 
(a)  
a consolidated report, consolidating the reports referred to in  
paragraph 1 above; and 
 
(b)  
an annual forecast plan containing financial projections and 
revised and updated Project monitoring and evaluation indicators for the 
activities to be undertaken in the upcoming year, in a format acceptable to the 
Bank 
 
and shall promptly submit such reports and plans to the Bank for its review and 
comment. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity maintains a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project Implementing Entity prepares and furnishes to the Bank 
after the end of each calendar quarter (within forty-five days), interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
9
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity has its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period 
of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the year in which the first 
withdrawal is made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
C. 
Operational Audit 
 
1. 
In the first year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
engage an independent external audit firm acceptable to the 
Bank to carry out a baseline operational audit of the Project, such audit to include 
operational systems and procedures review including an internal framework 
assessment; 
 
(b) 
prepare an operational audit report on the conclusion of the audit 
carried out under sub-paragraph (a) above; and 
 
(c)       provide a copy of the operational audit  report prepared under 
sub paragraph (b) above to the Bank within thirty (30) days of its completion. 
 
2. 
Following the baseline operational audit and report in the first year of the Project, 
in each subsequent year, the Borrower and the Bank shall discuss the need for 
any subsequent operational audit. 
 
3. 
 In each subsequent year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall engage, 
at the request of the Bank, an independent external audit firm acceptable to the 
Bank to carry out a subsequent annual operational audit of the Project and the 
operational systems and procedures, including an assessment of the internal 
control framework assessment under the Project, taking into account the baseline 
operational audit report referred to in paragraph (1) of this Section and any 
subsequent annual reports.  A copy of the report of any subsequent audit shall be 
provided promptly to the Bank. 
D.  
Midterm Review 
 
1. 
Not later than June 30, 2011 the Borrower, through the Ministry of Economy and 
the Project Implementing Entity, shall carry out together with the Bank, a 
midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter 
referred to as the Midterm Review). 
 
10 
 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
 
(a) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity  prepares, and at 
least three (3) month prior to the Midterm Review, furnishes to the Bank, a 
separate report describing the status of implementation of each component of the 
Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally (the “Mid-
term Report”). 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding . 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
11 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding 
(b) 
Limited International Bidding 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
(d)  
Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  
Least Cost selection 
(b)  
Individual Consultants 
(c)  
Consultants Qualifications 
(d)   
Single Source 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
12 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
exclusive of Taxes 
 
(1) Goods, Training and 
 
Consultants’ Services  
 
8,500,000 
100% 
(2) Civil Works under  
 
Part 1 
 
294,500,000 
100% 
(3) Civil Works under  
 
Part 2 
 
96,000,000 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
1,000,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
400,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a)  
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) or Category (3) (as 
the case may be) which relate to activities to be carried out on or in 
relation to any land which is the subject of a Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Plan until the Borrower has provided evidence, satisfactory 
13 
 
to the Bank, that the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan  has been 
satisfactorily carried out.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
14 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the 
dollars Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Percentage )
On each May 15 and November 15 
Beginning May 15, 2014 
Through November 15, 2038 
 
2% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
15 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
16 
 
APPENDIX 
 
SECTION I 
 
Definitions 
 
1.  
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits 
and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Environmental 
Management Plan dated March 3, 2007 describing the environmental mitigation 
measures anticipated for activities under the Project and the parties responsible for 
monitoring of construction and operational impacts.  
5. 
“GAC Action Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s plan entitled 
“Governance and Anti-Corruption Action Plan” to be adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity and referred to in Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement.   
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 2008). 
7. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework” means the framework 
document prepared by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the 
requirements of the national legislation of the Borrower, approved by the Bank for the 
Project implementation and dated November 19, 2007 describing the process and 
procedures to be taken, and the plans to be prepared, and the mitigation and 
compensation measures, and consultation and information processes to be followed in the 
event of land acquisition and/or  resettlement of persons affected by the Project as a result 
of implementation of Part 1 and Part 2  of the Project.  
8. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan” means each plan relating to land 
acquisition and/or resettlement of Project-affected persons, as the case may be, prepared 
under the Project in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework. 
17 
 
9. 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Borrower’s central executive body 
that operates under the Ministry of Finance statute, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers 
Regulation No. 1837 dated December 27, 2006, or its legal successor. 
10. 
“Ministry of Economy” means the Borrower’s central executive body that 
operates under the Ministry of Economy statute, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers 
Regulation No. 777 dated May 26, 2007, or its legal successor. 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 
2006. 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 27, 2009 referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
13. 
 “Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s State Road Administration 
of Ukraine (Ukravtodor), the Borrower’s central executive body that operates under the 
Avtodor Statute approved by the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 628 dated April 16, 
2007 or its successor.,  
14. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the manual prepared by the Project 
Implementing Entity to be adopted by the Borrower and referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
and Schedule 2, Section 1.A, paragraph 2 of this Agreement, for use in Project 
implementation, and which includes fiduciary, financial management, procurement, 
safeguards, anti-corruption, monitoring  and reporting and auditing provisions. 
15.  
“roads” means all state and local roads administered by the State Roads 
Administration of Ukraine (Ukravtodor) according to  the Borrower’s legislation.  
16. 
 “Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
Ministry of Finance and the Project Implementing Entity and referred to in Section 1.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the proceeds of the Loan shall be made 
available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
SECTION II 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
18 
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
19 
 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
