CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7549-AZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Absheron Rehabilitation Program II:  
Integrated Solid Waste Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 20, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7549-AZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 20, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-nine million five hundred 
thousand Dollars ($29,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
- 3 -
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PMT in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual and the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
- 4 -
(a) 
Presidential Decree No. 1697, dated September 28, 2006, establishing 
the 
Borrower’s 
Comprehensive 
Action 
Plan 
on 
Improving 
Environmental Situation in Azerbaijan for 2006-2010, has been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Project Operational Manual has been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
(c) 
Presidential Decree No. 504, dated December 28, 2006, approving the 
Charter of the Ministry of Economic Development of the Borrower, has 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a)  
The Borrower has adopted the Project Operational Manual, acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower has appointed the procurement and financial management 
specialists acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower has put in place the financial management system 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
- 5 -
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:  
 
 
142116 BNKSL 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By: /s/ Shahin Abdulla oglu Mustafayev 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Gregory Jedrzejczak 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the reform of the Greater Baku solid 
waste collection and disposal operations into an effective and sustainable system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Component A: Institutional Reform, Capacity Building and Project Management
1. 
Finalization of a strategic plan for the sector, which includes: (a) analytical work 
to assess the existing systems, institutional reform, sector financing, funding and cash 
flow management; (b) development of legal framework and institutional structure; (c) 
development of roll-out plans for waste collection services and involvement of private 
sector; (d) tariff and tariff collection reforms; (e) development of accounting and data 
systems; and (f) strategy for dealing with medical and hazardous waste, planning for 
rehabilitation of disposal sites and closure of informal dumps. 
 
2. 
Provision of capacity building and management support programs for practical 
management and operational skills in solid waste collection and disposal. 
 
3. 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services for public awareness campaigns and 
communication program. 
 
4. 
Strengthening of the management capacity of the PMT to monitor and administer 
implementation of the Project. 
 
Component B: Balakhani Landfill Rehabilitation and Management
Improvement of the capacity of an existing landfill for continuation of disposal 
activities in an operationally and environmentally sound manner. 
 
Component C: Closure and Management of Informal Dumps
Closure and cleanup of informal dumps through removal and the transportation 
of waste from all wild dumps, as well as the improvement of management of formal sites, 
in order to minimize the negative environmental effects associated with informal or non-
sanitary waste disposal. 
 
Component D: Urgent Collection Equipment
Provision of goods in order to increase the service quality and availability of 
solid waste collection coverage and service efficiency. 
 
- 7 -
Component E: Technical Preparation of Future Investment
Preparation of feasibility studies and environmental impact assessments needed 
to develop new landfill capacity and introduce transfer stations to maintain an effective 
enhanced waste collection and disposal system. 
 
- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Economic Development of the 
Borrower, maintain, throughout Project implementation, the PMT headed by a 
project manager and with staff, resources and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, cause to maintain the 
Working Group, which shall meet at least quarterly and whose composition and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
EMF, EMP and RPF shall be taken in a timely manner. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the RAPs: (a) shall be prepared in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the RPF prior to commencement of 
any activities for the areas where physical relocation, land acquisition and/or loss 
of income due to the Project activities have been identified, and; (b) shall be 
carried out in a timely manner, satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
- 9 -
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, on or about September 
30, 2010, a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(b) review with the Bank, by October 30, 2010, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
- 10 -
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder; 
(ii)  
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works procurement and 
shall be conducted only for large works contracts; 
(ii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
(vi) 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of 
producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
(vi) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ 
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring 
entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available budget; 
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank; 
(ix) 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
(x) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the 
contract scope and conditions during implementation. 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
- 11 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
3. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e) Single-source Selection 
 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant  
 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
- 12 -
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(excluding VAT) 
 
(1)  Goods, works, 
consultants’ services, 
training and incremental 
operating costs for the 
Components A, B, C 
and E of the Project 
 
29,426,250 
100% 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
            
73,750 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 
2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
(3)  Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0 
Amount due under 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
29,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
 
- 13 -
Section V.
Other Undertakings
1. 
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall ensure that a 
technical design has been approved by the Bank prior to the commencement of 
any activities involving works for each specific site under Component B of the 
Project. 
 
2. 
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, no activities under Component A.2 shall 
commence prior to the establishment of a joint-stock company for solid waste 
management, with its own legal status and institutional arrangements. 
 
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
November 15, 2012 
2.42% 
May 15, 2013 
2.50% 
November 15, 2013 
2.59% 
May 15, 2014 
2.68% 
November 15, 2014 
2.78% 
May 15, 2015 
2.87% 
November 15, 2015 
2.97% 
May 15, 2016 
3.08% 
November 15, 2016 
3.19% 
May 15, 2017 
3.30% 
November 15, 2017 
3.41% 
May 15, 2018 
3.53% 
November 15, 2018 
3.66% 
May 15, 2019 
3.78% 
November 15, 2019 
3.92% 
May 15, 2020 
4.05% 
November 15, 2020 
4.20% 
May 15, 2021 
4.34% 
November 15, 2021 
4.49% 
May 15, 2022 
4.65% 
November 15, 2022 
4.81% 
May 15, 2023 
4.98% 
November 15, 2023 
5.16% 
May 15, 2024 
5.34% 
November 15, 2024 
5.52% 
May 15, 2025 
5.78% 
- 15 -
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
- 16 -
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 17 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“EMF” means the Environmental Management Framework, dated February 22, 
2008, setting forth the framework of environmental management to be carried out 
under Component C of the Project in order to mitigate any adverse impact to the 
environment. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, dated February 20, 2008, 
setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse impact to the environment for 
Component B of the Project. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
7. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental operating and maintenance 
costs incurred by the Borrower on account of management of Project 
implementation for communications, utilities including electricity, bank charges, 
printing and publications, office rent maintenance, repair and supplies, office 
security systems, vehicle operation, fuel and maintenance, salaries of the 
Borrower’s staff employed for the purpose of the Project, excluding those who 
are civil servants, eligible social charges, transportation and field trip expenses, 
insurance for office equipment and vehicle, all for the purpose of Project 
management, as such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank. 
 
8. 
“PMT” means the Project Management Team within the Ministry of Economic 
Development of the Borrower, established through the Ministerial Decree No. 
653, dated November 14, 2007, or any successor thereto, responsible for the 
day-to-day management and monitoring of the Project. 
- 18 -
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 29, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
11. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the implementation manual referred to in 
Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, setting forth the operational and 
administrative procedures for the implementation of the Project and including all 
environmental and social safeguard frameworks, implementation schedule and 
key terms of reference, as well as the Procurement Plan. 
 
12. 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan prepared by the Borrower as 
implementing recommendation of the RPF (as hereinafter defined) under the 
Project. 
 
13. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated April 2, 2008, defining 
the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons under Components B and C of the Project. 
 
14. 
“Training” means expenses incurred by the Borrower in connection with carrying 
out training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per diem for 
local trainees and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of facilities and 
equipment and training materials and related supplies. 
 
15. 
“VAT” means the value-added tax, levied in accordance with the legislation of 
the Borrower. 
 
16. 
“Working Group” means the inter-agency group established by the Ministry of 
Economic Development of the Borrower through the Ministerial Order of the 
Ministry of Economic Development (Order No. 653), dated November 14, 2007, 
or any successor thereto, whose compositions and the duration of its mandate 
may be changed from time to time with the agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank, in order to coordinate among stakeholders, including the Ministry of 
Industry and Energy of the Borrower, the Ministry of the Environment and 
Natural Resources of the Borrower, Baku City Executive Authority.
 
