CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7680-DO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Water and Sanitation in Tourist Areas Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 18, 2009 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7680-DO 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated September 18, 2009, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty seven million five hundred thousand Dollars 
($27,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 
3.02(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
-2- 
 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through SEEPYD, in technical 
partnership with the Participating Utilities with respect to Part 1(b) of the Project and 
with CORAAPPLATA with respect to Part 2 of the Project, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on October 4, 
2010. 
 
 
-3- 
 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretario de Estado de Hacienda.  
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda  
 
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
 
Santo Domingo, Apartado Postal 1478 
República Dominicana 
 
 
Tel:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
(809) 687-5131  
(809) 688-8838 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
-4- 
 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
 
 
By /s/ Roberto Saladín Selín 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) strengthening and consolidating the policy 
framework of the Borrower’s water and sanitation sector; (ii) improving and expanding access to 
sanitation and wastewater treatment and disposal services in the Puerto Plata region; (iii) 
improving the financial and operational performance of CORAAPPLATA; and (iv) enhancing 
operational and commercial performance of other regional utilities and preparing them to 
participate in the second phase of the Program. 
 
 
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Technical Assistance for Sector Development  
 
 
(a) 
Design of a water and sanitation sector strategy, including the identification of 
key reforms, the preparation of an action plan for the implementation of said 
reforms, as well as the development of a Water Sector Council to facilitate inter-
agency dialogue and coordination on the strategy. 
 
 
(b) 
Development of an institutional modernization and strengthening program to 
support the improvement of the management capacity of Participating Utilities, 
including: (i) preparation of medium-term business plans; (ii) modernization of 
consumer cadastre; (iii) carrying out of leakage reduction campaigns; and (iv) 
preparation of feasibility studies and environmental impact assessments for 
proposed works under a possible second phase of the Program financed by the 
Bank. 
 
 
(c) 
Development of: (i) criteria for the design of watershed management plans aimed 
to improve regional environmental management capacity and to protect and 
reclaim coastal watersheds; and (ii) a strategic environmental assessment of the 
Borrower’s northern coast, including the design of strategies for environmental 
management, compatible with the long term regional economic development and 
preservation goals. 
 
 
(d) 
Carrying out of a national environmental education and public participation 
campaign aimed at increasing the involvement of a broad cross-section of 
consumers in the sector reform process, as well as raising the environmental and 
sector awareness of critical stakeholders and beneficiaries. 
 
Part 2: Rehabilitation and Expansion of Sanitation Services in Puerto Plata Region  
 
 
(a) 
Rehabilitation and expansion of priority sewerage networks and pumping stations 
in the Puerto Plata region. 
 
 
(b) 
Rehabilitation of the San Felipe de Puerto Plata wastewater treatment plant, as 
well as the carrying out of feasibility studies, designs and construction of a 
 
-6- 
 
submarine outfall to discharge treated wastewaters from San Felipe de Puerto 
Plata and Cabarete. 
 
 
(c) 
Strengthening CORAAPPLATA’s operational and commercial performance, 
through: (i) the development of a comprehensive strategic business plan; (ii) the 
provision of technical assistance for the development of efficiency improvement 
programs to bring the utility to reasonable levels of management, operational 
efficiency and financial viability; (iii) the carrying out of a baseline and after-
Project analysis; and (iv) the preparation of detailed project designs and 
feasibility studies for proposed investments under a possible future operation 
financed by the Bank. 
 
 
Part 3: Program Administration  
 
  
 
(a) 
Provision of support for Project coordination and strengthening of  SEEPYD and 
CORAAPPLATA, through the provision of technical assistance (including 
audits), training, and provision of goods and equipment required for Project 
administration and monitoring. 
 
 
(b) 
Ensuring the achievement of Project objectives, through monitoring and 
evaluation activities that provide inputs to continuously guide Project 
management decisions. 
 
 
 
 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall enter into agreements (“Performance and Financial Support 
Agreements”), under terms and conditions approved by the Bank and included in the 
Operational Manual, with:  
 
 
(a) 
CORAAPPLATA, to facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project and to set 
forth the technical, financial, fiduciary and administrative aspects of its participation in 
the implementation of Part 2 of the Project. Said agreement shall include provisions to: 
(i) ensure that the provision of water and sanitation services is provided within a context 
of economic and financial sustainability, and in accordance with cost-recovery 
mechanism acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have the goods, works and services required for 
the implementation of Part 2 of the Project be procured in compliance with the provisions 
of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iii) create an evaluation committee for 
the evaluation of bids associated with the procurement of goods, works and services 
under Part 2 of the Project; and (iv) outline specific areas for financing and establishing 
operational and commercial targets for the period covering Project implementation; and 
 
 
(b) 
each Participating Utility, to facilitate the carrying out of Part 1(b) of the Project 
as well as to set forth the technical, financial, and administrative aspects of its 
participation in the implementation of future investments under a possible second phase 
of the Program, including the obligation of each of the Participating Utilities to: (i) ensure 
that the provision of water and sanitation services is provided within a context of 
economic and financial sustainability, and in accordance with cost-recovery mechanism 
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) outline specific areas for financing and establishing 
operational and commercial targets for the period covering Project implementation. Said 
agreements shall be entered into in a manner satisfactory to the Bank not later than May 
31, 2011. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Performance and Financial Support 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the 
Performance and Financial Support Agreements or any provisions thereof. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, consistently with the Environmental and Social Framework, ensure 
that no excavations or any type of works under Parts 2(a) and (b) of the Project shall be 
carried out unless an environmental screening and/or an environmental assessment (as the 
case may be) of the pertinent investment has been carried out in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
 
-8- 
 
 
(a) 
maintain and strengthen, until completion of the Project, a unit within SEEPYD 
(the PCU), responsible for the management, coordination, supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; and  
 
 
(b) 
cause such unit to have a structure, responsibilities, and key staff with functions, 
experience, responsibilities and qualifications acceptable to the Bank as described in the 
Operational Manual, including a manager and procurement and financial management 
specialists. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of: (a) the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework; (b) the Resettlement Policy 
Framework; and (c) a manual (the “Operational Manual”), satisfactory to the Bank, said 
manual to include, inter alia: (i) the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; (ii) the organizational structure of the Project (including the 
role and responsibilities of SEEPYD, CORAAPPLATA and Participating Utilities); (iii) 
the Project procurement and financial management requirements and procedures; (iv) 
environmental guidelines for construction, including procedures to follow in case of 
unexpected findings of objects with possible cultural or archeological value; (v) the 
eligibility criteria for the selection of Participating Utilities; (vi) the standard 
environmental provisions to be included in the bidding documents for investments to be 
carried out under the Project (which shall include provisions: (A) to minimize natural 
habitat conversion or degradation and to permit the maximum growth of natural 
vegetation within the pertinent right of way; and (B) whereby the contractor must comply 
with: (1) the pertinent provisions of the corresponding environmental management plan; 
and (2) the actions to be followed in connection with the finding of cultural property); 
(vii) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (viii) the format of: (A) the 
unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II. B.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and (B) the Financial Statements; (ix) the terms of reference for carrying out 
the Project audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (x) the 
indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation.  In case of any inconsistency 
between any provision of the Operational Manual and this Agreement, the provision of 
this Agreement will prevail. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, shall establish a Water 
Sector Council to facilitate the coordination among government institutions, key donors, 
bilateral institutions and other key stakeholders, to oversee the process of planning, 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of activities under Part 1 of the Project and 
provide recommendations based on the review of the progress reports prepared for the 
Project. Said council shall be composed by representatives of SEEPYD, INAPA, regional 
utilities and representatives of the Borrower’s Secretariats of Tourism, Public Works and 
Communications, Public Health and Social Assistance. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
 
-9- 
 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
four months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
 
-10- 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least-Cost Selection 
(d) Quality-based Selection 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
-11- 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) Goods 
 
300,000 
100% until withdrawals have 
reached an aggregate amount 
of 
$150,000; 
and 
80% 
thereafter 
(2) Works 
 
20,731,250 
100% until withdrawals have 
reached an aggregate amount 
of 
$2,000,000 
and 
85% 
thereafter 
(3) Consultant’s Services 
 
6,000,000 
100%  
(4) Training 
 
400,000 
100% 
(5) Premia for Interest 
-0-                    Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
 
under Section  
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
2.09 (c) of 
 
 
 
 
-0- 
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement. 
(6) Front-end Fee 
 
68,750 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement 
in 
accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
27,500,000 
 
 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Training” means reasonable expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower, through SEEPYD, for the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including reasonable costs of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of training 
facilities and equipment, refreshments, publishing services and printing training materials. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
 
 
 
-12- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
Beginning May 15, 2015, 
 
through May 15, 2035 
  
 
 
2.38% 
 
On November 15, 2035 
 
2.42% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
-13- 
 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
 
-14- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“CORAAPPLATA” means Corporación de Acueductos y Alcantarillados de Puerto 
Plata, the Puerto Plata Water and Sewerage Company, created through Law 142-97 of 
March 12, 1997. 
 
5. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Borrower’s assessment, 
dated October 30, 2007, of the Project environmental and social impacts, which identifies 
the existing environmental and social conditions and the potential direct and indirect 
environmental and social impacts from the carrying out of the Project, and recommends 
mitigation measures for negative impacts identified, as well as measures for enhancing 
identified positive impacts. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
7. 
“INAPA” means Instituto Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado, the Borrower’s 
National Institute of Water and Sewerage. 
 
8. 
Operational Manual” means the manual dated February 3, 2009 and referred to in 
paragraph 5(c) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Participating Utilities” means water and sanitation utilities which are either publicly 
owned and/or controlled or privately owned, which have been granted and/or assigned 
the responsibility to provide water and sanitation services within the Borrower’s territory, 
and which meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for Project participation. 
 
10. 
“Performance and Financial Support Agreement” means any of the agreements referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in October 2006. 
 
 
-15- 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
February 4, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Program” means the Borrower’s program (consisting of 2 phases) set forth or referred to 
in the letter dated February 2, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank. 
 
14. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s document dated March 12, 
2007, specifying the population resettlement policies, planning principles, institutional 
arrangements,  procurement arrangements and design criteria that shall apply to the 
preparation and carrying out of the action plans for the resettlement of population under 
the Project. 
 
15. 
“SEEPYD” means Secretaría de Estado de Economía, Planificación y Desarrollo, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Economy, Planning and Development. 
 
 
