CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4888 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Housing and Communal Services Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 16, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 4888 RU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 16, 2009, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement the amount of two hundred millions dollars 
($200,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MORD in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementation Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a 
way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or 
the PIU to carry out the Project; and 
 
(b) 
The PIU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Implementation Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: any event 
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and 
is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
The Borrower has selected Participating Cities for the Project on the 
basis of a selection methodology satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Project Implementation Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower, represented by the MOF and 
the MORD, and the PIU. 
 
(c) 
The Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank has been adopted by the 
Borrower. 
 
3
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: the Project 
Implementation Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed between 
the Borrower, represented by the MOF and the MORD, and the PIU and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the PIU in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower, or 
any other person authorized by the Minister of Finance in writing. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation 
 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
109097 Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
112008  
 
(7-495) 925-0889 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By: /s/ Victor F. Basargin 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Klaus Rowland 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and financial viability of the 
Housing and Communal Services of the Participating Cities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Component A: Support to HCS reforms implementation at the federal level
(a) 
Development of a legal and regulatory framework for HCS reforms 
implementation and provision of Training at the federal level. 
 
(b) 
Establishment of a national HCS monitoring system on a pilot basis. 
 
(c) 
Dissemination of the Project results to non-participating cities and 
regions. 
 
Component B: Support to the Participating Cities with HCS reforms implementation
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance and Training on utility reform, social 
protection and housing. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of the implementation of municipal reform programs. 
 
(c) 
Knowledge sharing between the Participating Cities through capacity 
building events and written knowledge products. 
 
(d) 
Implementation of a public awareness campaign on HCS reforms. 
 
Component C: Assistance with preparation and implementation of HSC investment 
plans
(a) 
Preparation of municipal investment plans by the Participating Cities, 
including feasibility studies and technical designs. 
 
(b) 
Financing of investment plans of the Selected Cities. 
 
(c) 
Supervision of implementation of investment plans of the Selected 
Cities. 
 
6
Component D
Project management and monitoring
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance to MORD for project implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation. 
 
(b) 
Financing of Operating Costs. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain the IAWG with a composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
2.  
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, the PIU at all 
times functions in a manner, and with staff, consultants, facilities and other resources 
necessary for the management and implementation of the Project, all satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MORD and with the assistance of the PIU, shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements 
and operational procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and shall not revise or 
amend any provisions of the Operational Manual without prior approval of the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all measures necessary for the 
carrying out of the EMP in a timely manner and shall ensure that investment plans of the 
Selected Cities to be financed under Component C (b) of the Project are prepared in full 
compliance with the EMP and according to environmental requirements and procedures 
set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
8
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The first and final 
audit may cover a period of up to eighteen (18) months. The audited Financial Statements 
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
9
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule 2 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
(d) Agreed procedures for organization of Training 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b) Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(e) Single-Source Selection 
 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
10
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1)  Goods, Works, Consultants’ 
Services and Training for the 
Project except for 
Component C (b) of the 
Project 
 
21,000,000 
 
78% 
(2) Goods, Works and 
Consultants’ Services for 
Component C (b) of the 
Project 
 
175,000,000 
 
100% 
(3) Operating Costs 
 
4,000,000 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
200,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  
 
11
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after July 1, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (3). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 1, 2014. 
 
12
ANNEX  
to  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
Contracts for goods or works for which Part B of Section III of Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement 
Guidelines may be procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and 
regulations of the Borrower. In order to assure economy, efficiency, transparency and 
broad consistency with the provisions in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and in 
order to be acceptable to the Bank, the national procurement provisions shall comply with 
the provisions of the following paragraphs of this Annex. 
 
Eligibility
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall 
be placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those 
imposed by primary boycotts. 
 
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on 
requirements to joint-venture with national firms. 
 
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration 
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified 
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating. 
 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of place of registration, 
ownership, small size, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source of labor, 
material or equipment. 
 
5. 
Government-owned entitles shall be eligible to participate in bidding for 
contracts if they can establish that they are legally and financial autonomous, operate 
under commercial law and are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
 
Standard Bidding Documents
6. 
Until a modified version of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been 
approved for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
 
13
Advertising bidding opportunities; time for bid preparation
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least thirty (30) days for bid preparation and 
submission of bids (excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelves goods or 
standard specification commodities or small value works)  
 
8. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurements involving large or complex 
contracts shall be advertised.  
 
9. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post 
qualification) shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so 
specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders 
which are deemed not qualified to bid shall not be further considered and shall be 
rejected. 
 
Bid opening
10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be 
considered and shall be returned unopened.  
 
Rebidding
11. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received 
provided that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed 
capable of performing the contract.  
 
Bid evaluation
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so 
specified shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of 
bids for goods and works contracts.  
 
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be 
present during evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to 
any bidder until the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
 
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as 
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw 
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
 
14
15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be 
applied. Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder. 
 
16. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior 
to contract award.  
 
15
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in USD∗)
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
beginning June 15, 2013 
 
through December 15, 2022 
 
10,000,000 
 
∗ The figures in this column represent the amount in USD to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
16
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“EMP” means the framework environmental management plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank, adopted by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank on October 6, 
2006, setting forth measures to monitor and mitigate any adverse impacts to the 
environment. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
 
5. 
“HCS” means housing and communal services. 
 
6. 
“IAWG” means the Interagency Working Group established by the Borrower for 
the purposes of paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor thereto.  
 
8. 
“MORD” means the Ministry of Regional Development of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the PIU on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including staff 
salaries and consultancy costs, social charges, Project and PIU audit, training, 
conferences and seminars, dissemination of Project related information, office 
rent and utilities, office equipment and supplies, office and equipment insurance, 
maintenance and repair, vehicle maintenance and repair, travel, communication, 
translation and interpretation, bank charges, and other miscellaneous costs 
directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
10. 
“Operational Manual” means the project operational manual satisfactory to the 
Bank and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 (c) of this 
Agreement. 
 
17
11. 
“PIU” means an entity with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank and selected by the Borrower for the purposes of day to day assistance 
to the MORD in Project management and implementation and which is the party 
to the Project Implementation Agreement.  
 
12. 
“Participating Cities” means jointly up to fourteen cities of the Borrower 
competitively selected by IAWG for participation in the Project and include ten 
Selected Cities (as defined hereinafter) and up to four reserve cities which can be 
converted into the Selected Cities by a decision of IAWG if needed. 
“Participating City” means any of these cities. 
 
13. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 24, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Implementation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, represented by the MOF and the MORD, and the PIU 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Selected Cities” means jointly the ten cities selected by IAWG from the 
Participating Cities for the purposes of Component C (b) of the Project and 
which shall enter into an agreement with the MORD for the purposes of 
implementation of their investment plans under Component C (b) of the Project. 
“Selected City” means any of these cities. 
 
17. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities for federal and municipal public servants 
and HCS sector workers, not included under goods or service providers’ 
contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, 
travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers and trainers’ 
fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs. 
 
