CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7679-MU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Trade and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan  
with Deferred Drawdown Option) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 11, 2009 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7679-MU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated May 11, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program  
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing 
on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, (a) the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), (b) the 
amount of twenty-two million seven hundred thousand Euros (�22,700,000), and (c) the 
amount of twenty-eight million Pounds Sterling (£28,000,000), as any such amounts may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”).  
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in  
Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.  
2.06. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal 
amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request repayment 
provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement for such 
Withdrawal, provided that (i) the average maturity of such Withdrawal does not 
exceed 18 years from the Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such 
Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other 
average maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans 
made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement), and (ii) such 
repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior 
to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change  
of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
3
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant 
part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economic Empowerment. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment 
Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(230) 213 6450 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Port Louis, Republic of Mauritius, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
By /s/ Ramakrishna Sithanen 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ruth Kagia 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
Consolidation of Fiscal Performance and Improving Public Sector Efficiency
1. 
Alignment of the chart of accounts of the Treasury accounting system with the 
Government Finance Statistics Manual 2001 and upgrading of the Borrower’s financial 
management information system to enable budget implementation and reporting of  
financial and non-financial data, under the efforts of the Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Empowerment (“MoFEE”), in coordination with the department of the 
Accountant General. 
2. 
Enactment and proclamation of the Public Debt Management Act 2008, which  limits the 
Borrower’s public sector debt to a maximum of 60-percent of gross domestic product and 
provides for public sector debt reduction to 50-percent by the end of 2013.  
3. 
Implementation of performance management pilots in the Borrower’s civil service by 
individual line ministries and the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms.  
4. 
Begin implementation of the respective parastatal reform action plans, by the Central 
Water Authority, Wastewater Management Authority, Central Electricity Board, and 
Sugar Planters Mechanical Pool Corporation, to improve operational efficiency and 
service delivery by: (a) introducing a performance management system, promoting staff 
proficiency in multiple areas of expertise, reducing overtime and eliminating unfilled 
posts; (b) increasing capacity utilization of capital equipment (i.e., vehicles, tractors), and 
reducing fuel and lubricating oil costs; (c) outsourcing transport and security services, 
cutting delivery time and cost, and reducing pilferage; and (d) improving inventory 
management by reducing the number and volumes of items carried. 
Improvement of Trade Competitiveness
5. 
Continue implementation of the duty free island policy, as prepared by the MoFEE, by 
significantly reducing average tariff rate and number of top rated tariff lines.  
Improvement of Investment Climate
6. 
Introduction of a flexi-security scheme, as reflected in the workfare program provisions 
contained in section IX of the Employment Rights Act 2008.  
Widening the Circle of Opportunity through Participation, Social Inclusion and Sustainability
7. 
Preparation and submission by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Human Resources 
to Cabinet of a draft Education and Human Resources Strategy Plan that diagnoses 
education sector needs, identifies objectives and priorities, and outlines options, which 
6
will be costed and, together with human resources requirements, incorporated into a 
medium term action plan and a fully financed, program based budget submission. 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan is set out in the 
table below:  
Allocations 
Amount of the 
Dollar Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Amount of the Euro 
Tranche Allocated  
(expressed in EUR) 
Amount of the 
Pound Sterling 
Tranche Allocated 
(expressed in GBP) 
Amounts available for 
withdrawal 
 
29,925,000 
22,643,250
27,930,000 
Front-end Fee 
       75,000 
       56,750 
       70,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
30,000,000 
 
22,700,000 
 
28,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
accounts designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
these accounts, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.  If, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a 
request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a review of 
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework or of its progress in carrying out the 
Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance 
unless and until the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange 
of views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with: (1) the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program; and (2) the appropriateness of the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
E. 
Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 
F. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2014  
 
through June 15, 2028 
3.33% 
On December 15, 2028 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
8
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such  
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption 
of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
9
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Accountant General” means the administrative head of the Borrower’s Treasury. 
2. 
“Cabinet” means the body established under the Borrower’s Constitution and which 
consists of the Prime Minister and the other ministers of the Borrower. 
3. 
“Central Electricity Board” means the board established by the Central Electricity Board 
Act of January 25, 1964. 
4. 
“Central Water Authority” means the authority established under the Central Water 
Authority Act of 1971. 
5. 
“Dollar Tranche” means the amount of the Loan specified in Section 2.01 (a) of this 
Agreement. 
6. 
“Euro Tranche” means the amount of the Loan specified in Section 2.01 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Education and Human Resources Strategy Plan” means the Borrower’s plan referred to 
in Section I.7 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
8. 
“Employment Rights Act” means the Act No. 33 of 2008. 
9. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
10
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party); 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
11
11. 
“Government Finance Statistics Manual 2001” means the manual issued by the 
International Monetary Fund in 2001 that provides guidelines for recording government 
finance statistics. 
12. 
“Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms” means the Borrower’s ministry 
that is responsible for the country’s civil service. 
13. 
“Ministry of Education, Culture and Human Resources” means the Borrower’s ministry 
that is responsible for the country’s education sector from pre-primary to tertiary levels. 
14. 
“National Assembly” means the unicameral parliament of Mauritius. 
15. 
“Pound Sterling”, “£” and “GBP” each means the lawful currency of the United 
Kingdom. 
16. 
“Pound Sterling Tranche” means the amount of the Loan specified in Section 2.01 (c) of 
this Agreement. 
17. 
“Public Debt Management Act of 2008” means Act No. 5 of 2008, published in the 
Government Gazette of Mauritius No. 42 of May 8, 2008.  
18. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated December 10, 2008 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution.  
19. 
“Sugar Planters Mechanical Pool Corporation” means the parastatal body established 
under the Sugar Planters Mechanical Pool Corporation Act of October 21, 
1974.
20. 
“Treasury” means the unit under the aegis of MoFEE that, inter alia, ensures the proper 
financial and accounting arrangements in the Borrower’s ministries and departments, and 
exercises general supervision over the Borrower’s receipts of public revenue and 
expenditures. 
21. 
“Wastewater Management Authority” means the parastatal body established under the 
Wastewater Management Authority Act of 2001. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
12
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is 
modified to read as follows:  
“Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
13
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date  
(as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted 
by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified 
in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
(d) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
“‘Fixed Spread’ means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for the 
Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, 
on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the 
Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is applicable to an amount 
of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes 
of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or 
any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section 4.04 (a), the 
Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
(e) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  
(f) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (e) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows: 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
(g) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
“‘Variable Spread’ means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: (1) the 
Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) LIBOR, or other reference rates, 
14
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on 
the Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one 
Currency, “Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.”  
(h) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
“‘Withdrawal’ means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.” 
(i) 
A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
“‘Withdrawal Date’ means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the Bank 
pays the Withdrawal.” 
 
