CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7631-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Project for Indonesian Tax Administration Reform) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 9, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 9, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA    
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred ten million United States Dollars 
($110,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
2
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through the DGT in accordance with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall have adopted the Project Operations Manual in accordance 
with the terms of Section I.B.I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall have established the PIU as a formal entity, in accordance 
with the terms of Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and shall have 
appointed the Project Director (Echelon two level).  
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall have selected the chairperson and the members of the 
Procurement Committee for Part 1 of the Project in accordance with Section 
I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in each case with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower shall have finalized the procurement 
documents for Part 1 and submitted them to the Bank for no objection. 
 
3
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY 45799   
DJMLN-IA 
 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
 
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
4
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase taxpayer compliance with tax legislation 
by increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of DGT; and (ii) improve good governance in tax 
administration by strengthening transparency and accountability mechanisms. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Increasing the Efficiency of Taxpayer Data Collection and Management
(a) 
Taxpayer Registration.  Strengthening of the taxpayer identification number (TIN) 
system, including, but not limited to: simplification of registration procedures; and 
improvement of registration validation. 
 
(b) 
Tax Returns Processing.  Improvement in returns processing, including, but not limited 
to: linking of input in document processing centers with accounts processing and audit; 
improvement of automated front-end error checking of returns; improvement of stop-filer 
detection and follow-up; and support for the preparation of accurate and timely statistics 
for managing the efficiency of tax returns processing. 
 
(c) 
Taxpayer Accounts Management.  Strengthening of the centralized taxpayer accounts and 
ledger sub-systems, including, but not limited to:  improvement of data integrity and 
quality of the existing master file and taxpayer accounts; development of application 
software to support account management and document management, including 
automated decision support facilities; provision of tools for data matching; development 
of a comprehensive management information database and analytical tools for risk 
assessment; improvement of system security; and introduction of online access to 
taxpayer accounts. 
 
(d) 
Document Management.  Improvement of taxpayer document management, including, 
but not limited to: creation of system-generated notices; introduction of automated case 
file construction; and creation of automated arrears notices. 
 
(e) 
Tax System Architecture.  Improvement of the computing architecture, including, but not 
limited to: integration of all automated systems in a workflow scheme; increase in 
security; and enhancement of backup facilities. 
 
Part 2. Human Resource Management in DGT
(a) 
Policies.  Review of human resource policies, including, but not limited to:  job 
classification and remuneration; recruitment policies; staff rotation program and 
outplacement policies and practices. 
 
(b) 
Training.  Enhancement of training capacity including, but not limited to: development 
and implementation of a train-the-trainers program and enhancement of an e-learning 
system; development of technical training programs targeted at functional specialists; and 
development of induction and managerial training programs. 
6
(c) 
Strengthening  Accountability and Integrity. including, but not limited to: strengthening 
of DGT’s risk assessment capacity, internal control functions, auditing and sanctions 
regimes; review and dissemination of DGT code of conduct; and development of anti-
corruption training modules. 
 
Part 3. Strengthening Compliance Management Operations in DGT
(a) 
Tax Audit.  Including, but not limited to: introducing risk-based audit selection; 
reforming business processes for desk and field audits; computerizing processes 
supporting the tax audit function; and improvement of the audit planning and monitoring 
process. 
 
(b) 
Tax Collection.  Strengthening of arrears collection, including, but not limited to: 
enhancing the arrears monitoring system; reform of business processes for arrears 
collection; and enhancement of the collection enforcement ICT system. 
 
Part 4. Project and Change Management in DGT
Supporting the management of the Project and DGT’s the Borrower’s change management 
processes, through technical assistance, including, but not limited to: improvement of internal and 
external communications and feedback surveys; transition training; establishment of the PIU and 
engagement  of the Owner’s Agent and provision of change management services. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
The Borrower shall establish by the date which is thirty days after the Effective Date, and 
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a Steering Committee, chaired by the 
Minister of Finance and responsible for managing issues that affect other directorates in 
the Ministry of Finance (Customs, Treasury and the Fiscal Policy Office). The Borrower 
shall ensure that the Steering Committee will meet at least twice each year. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Executive Board of DGT shall be maintained until 
completion of the Project and shall be responsible for providing policy guidance, 
coordinating Project implementation and resolving conflicts. The Borrower shall 
designate a subset of the Executive Board to be responsible for the Project, and such 
subset will meet monthly. 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Directorate of Transformation of Business 
Processes in DGT shall be responsible for overall Project implementation and 
change management and for coordinating implementation with other 
transformation directorates in DGT, including the Directorate of Internal 
Compliance and Resources Transformation and the Directorate of ICT 
Transformation. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that a PIU in the Directorate of Transformation of 
Business Processes in DGT is established, with staffing and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, and shall be maintained until completion of the Project. 
The PIU shall manage the day-to-day functions of the Project in accordance with 
the Project Operations Manual.  The PIU shall be headed by a DGT official 
(Project Director) at Echelon 2 level and staffed with full time DGT staff. The 
PIU shall have a sub-directorate headed by an individual at Echelon 3 level and 
with Echelon 4 level staff responsible for coordinating and managing: (i) 
configuration management, (ii) quality assurance, (iii) Project monitoring and 
control, (iv) implementation management and procurement support, and (v) data 
administration management, in each case in accordance with the Project 
Operations Manual.  The PIU shall include procurement and financial 
management units comprised of staff from the existing DGT secretariat 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU shall be responsible for managing 
contracts with external providers and shall provide procurement support to each 
Procurement Committee.  
(d) 
The PIU shall be assisted throughout Project implementation by the Owner’s 
Agent, under terms of reference acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, to 
provide to the PIU implementation support, validation and verification services 
and the services of a project management specialist, human resources 
8
management training specialist, change management specialist and a 
procurement specialist. The Borrower shall have selected the Owner’s Agent, and 
shall have submitted the proposed Owner’s Agent contract for Prior Review by 
the Bank by no later than the date which is thirty (30) days after the Effectiveness 
Date. 
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish a Procurement Committee for ICT procurement 
under Parts 1 and 3 of the Project prior to the commencement of any procurement 
activities under said Parts.   
(b) 
The Borrower shall establish a Procurement Committee for procurement of 
consultants services under Parts 2 and 4 of the Project prior to commencement of 
any procurement activities under said Parts.   
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain each Procurement Committee until completion of the 
Project.  Except as may be otherwise agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, 
the Borrower shall ensure that each Procurement Committee is comprised of at 
least three appropriately qualified staff with qualifications acceptable to the Bank 
from the general services unit of DGT and at least two appropriately qualified 
staff from the relevant technical area with qualifications acceptable to the Bank.  
Each Procurement Committee shall report to the Director General of DGT and 
provide procurement services to the Project Director in accordance with the 
Project Operations Manual. 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each of the PIU and each Procurement Committee is 
provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its 
objectives. 
B. 
Implementation Obligations 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
adopt and, thereafter ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with,  
the Project Operations Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the 
description of: (i) implementation arrangements set forth in Section I of this 
Schedule 2; (ii) the procurement procedures set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule 2 and standard procurement documentation; (iii) reporting 
requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth 
in Section II of this Schedule 2; (iv) disclosure standards and procedures, 
including procedures required for the publication of procurement opportunities, 
bidding documents and requests for proposals, short lists, contracts awarded and 
summaries of evaluation of bids and proposals; (v) the GAAP; (vi) the terms of 
reference for the Owner’s Agent consultants; and (vii) the Project Performance 
Indicators; 
(b) 
not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the Project 
Operations Manual except with prior agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank; and 
9
(c) 
ensure that the Project Operations Manual is made available, at all times until 
completion of the Project, to the Bank and to each person or entity which 
receives, is responsible for deposit or transfer of, or takes or influences decisions 
regarding the use of proceeds of the Loan, including each member of the PIU and 
each contractor and consultant. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall at all times during Project implementation and thereafter ensure that 
provision is made in its annual budget for sufficient funds for the operation and 
maintenance costs of the equipment funded by the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, prior to the issuance of any bidding document for the Project 
other than bidding documents for the Owner’s Agent contract, engage the 
Owner’s Agent in accordance with the Procurement Plan and the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, under terms of reference acceptable 
to the Borrower and the Bank, to assist the Borrower with project implementation 
support, validation and verification services, procurement and complaints 
handling, including: (i) a project management specialist; (ii) a human resources 
management specialist; and (iii) a procurement specialist.    
 
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
(i) retain the services of the Owner’s Agent until completion of the Project; and 
(ii) take all such steps as are necessary to ensure that the Owner’s Agent is able 
to provide services in accordance with its contractual terms of reference.  
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU shall establish in a timely manner working groups 
comprised of technical experts and stakeholders meeting the criteria set out in the Project 
Operations Manual to review, inspect and report on technical completeness and accuracy 
of work done by contractors. Such working groups shall be formed by a decree issued by 
the Director General of DGT, where appropriate, and in any event prior to the time of 
delivery of goods and services under the Project. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU shall develop and implement a public 
communications strategy in accordance with the Project Operations Manual, including:  
(a) operation of the Project Website by no later than the date which is 30 days after  the 
Effectiveness Date; (b) publication, in accordance with the requirements of the Project 
Operations Manual, of an Annual Progress Report, reviewing progress made in carrying 
out the Project in the preceding year, to be posted on the Project Website promptly after 
issuance of each such report; (c) publication of the report of the mid-term review of the 
Project carried out pursuant to Section II.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement promptly 
after issuance of such report; (d) development and publication of a complaints handling 
system; (e) publication of procurement activities in accordance with Section III.E of, and 
Annex 2 to, this Schedule promptly after completion of such activities including: 
advertisements for procurement funded by the Project, the Procurement Plan and any 
updates thereto, and contract award information (name, amount and services) after award; 
and (f) publication of final audit reports promptly after issuance. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU shall: (a) within one month of the Effective Date, 
and (b) thereafter within one month of the publication of the Annual Progress Report 
each year during Project implementation, hold a press conference.  The Borrower shall 
10 
 
ensure that the PIU shall provide notice of each such meeting on the Project Website and 
through press releases. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the GAAP. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of six months, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
(a)   
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank, and furnish to the Bank by December 31, 2010, or such 
later date as the Bank may otherwise agree, a midterm review report of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date of 
such report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date.  The Borrower shall provide the Bank with the 
opportunity to participate in the mid-term review. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall review with the Bank the report referred to in paragraph 2 (a) 
of this Section II.A, within thirty (30) days of the submission by the Borrower of 
such report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of such report. The Borrower shall make 
the mid-term review report publicly available on a schedule acceptable to the 
Bank.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 
11 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for 
goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in Annex 2 
to this Schedule 2. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
12 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Selection based on Consultants Qualifications 
(b)  Single-source Selection 
(c)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Additional Procurement Procedures 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each  Procurement Committee, established in accordance 
with Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, shall operate at all times in 
accordance with the terms of reference set out in the Project Operations Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that for each procurement exercise, (a) the bid evaluation of 
the relevant Procurement Committee shall be submitted to the Project Director and the 
Minister of Finance; and (b) the report of the Independent Bid Evaluation Consultant in 
reviewing the bid evaluation shall also be submitted to the Project Director and the 
Minister of Finance. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall make public, on the schedule set out in the Project Operations 
Manual, those procurement documents set out in the Project Operations Manual as 
requiring publication. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU shall make available to any member of the public: 
(a) 
all bidding documents and requests for proposals subject to payment of a 
reasonable fee to cover the cost of printing and delivery. In the case of requests 
for proposals, the relevant documents will only be made available after 
notification of award to the successful firm; 
 
(b) 
at no cost, any short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-qualification, lists of 
pre-qualified contractors and suppliers; 
 
(c) 
at no cost, a list of all contracts awarded to date in the project in respect of the 
project, including the name of the contractor/consultant, the contract amount, the 
number of bidders/makers of proposals, the procurement method followed and 
the purpose of the contract; and 
 
(d) 
subject to payment of a reasonable fee to cover the cost of printing and delivery, 
summaries of the evaluation of all bids and proposals for such proposed 
contracts. Information in these summaries will be limited to a list of 
bidders/consultants, all bid prices and financial proposals as read out at public 
openings for bids and financial proposals, bids and proposals declared non- 
13 
 
responsive (together with reasons for such declarations), the name of winning 
bidder/consultant and the contract price. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods, consultants’ services and 
training* under Part 1 of the Project 
97,500,000 
100% 
(2)  Goods, consultants’ services and 
training under Part 2 of the Project 
 750,000 
15% 
(3) 
Goods, 
consultants’ 
services, 
training and workshops under Part 3 of 
the Project 
 2,650,000 
15% 
(4) Goods, consultants’ services and 
training under Part 4 of the Project 
 8,625,000 
100% 
(5)  Premium for Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement Section 4.05(c) of 
the General Conditions 
(6)  Unallocated 
   200,000 
 
(7)  Front-end Fee 
   275,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
110,000,000
14 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
15 
 
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
 
Project Development 
Objective 
Project Outcome Indicators 
1. To increase taxpayer 
compliance by 
increasing the 
efficiency and 
effectiveness of the 
DGT  
 
2. To improve good 
governance in tax 
administration 
especially transparency 
and accountability  
Tax compliance 
•
Number of registered active taxpayers 
•
Number of tax declarations received on time / total number of tax 
declarations filed 
 
Efficiency and effectiveness 
•
Additional tax liability assessed through tax audits / Total combined 
tax liability declared by the taxpayers audited, and 
•
Number of audits resulting in additional tax assessed (and actually 
collected) / Total number of tax audits  
•
Amount of arrears at year end compared to amount of arrears at end 
of previous year. The Project will increase the number of arrears in 
the first couple of years and then reduce them.  The base line will be 
set mid-Project 
 
Governance 
•
Public perception of integrity of DGT, measured through periodic 
surveys 
•
Number of e-returns and e-registrations 
Intermediate 
Outcomes 
Intermediate Outcome Indicators 
Part 1: Increasing the 
efficiency of taxpayer 
data collection and 
management 
 
•
Reduction of the percentage of inactive taxpayers in the tax registry 
 
Part 2: Human resources 
management  
•
Numbers of DGT officials trained under technical training programs 
developed or upgraded to improve skills in core tax functions; 
numbers of DGT managers training under managerial training 
programs 
 
Part 3: Strengthening 
compliance management 
operations 
•
Percentage of taxes actually collected compared to additional taxes 
assessed through tax audits 
•
Percentage of tax arrears older than 12 months 
 
Part 4: Project  
management  
•
Quality assurance and change management activities are 
implemented according to schedule in the Project Operations Manual 
•
Procurement carried out in timely manner and according to 
Procurement Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines 
•
GAAP implemented 
 
16 
 
ANNEX 2 to SCHEDULE 2 
Clarifications Relating to National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
1. 
General
The procedures to be followed for NCB shall be those set forth in Presidential Decree No. 
80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the clarifications and modifications described 
in the following paragraphs required for compliance with the provisions of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 (the Guidelines). 
 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a condition 
for participation in the bidding process. 
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders (i) shall be 
allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process, and (ii) shall not 
be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-
qualification. 
 
3. 
Pre-qualification
(a) 
Pre-qualification shall not used for simple goods.  Normally, post-qualification 
shall be used.  When pre-qualification shall be required: 
 
(b) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification, 
and  
 
(c) 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
 
4. 
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form a 
joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a condition 
of award of the contract. 
 
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and local 
regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement 
procedures under the Loan. 
 
17 
 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national 
daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents 
up to twenty-four (24) hours prior the deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are 
willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit responsible for 
procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of 
the contract. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity for registering. 
 
7. 
Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or bank 
guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids, and if bids are invited in two (2) envelopes, both envelopes (technical and 
price) shall be opened at the same time. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the 
bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, 
non-substantial deviations. 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s 
estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding shall not be 
carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
18 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 1, 2018 
2.17 
October 1, 2018 
2.22 
April 1, 2019 
2.28 
October 1, 2019 
2.34 
April 1, 2020 
2.40 
October 1, 2020 
2.46 
April 1, 2021 
2.52 
October 1, 2021 
2.58 
April 1, 2022 
2.64 
October 1, 2022 
2.71 
April 1, 2023 
2.78 
October 1, 2023 
2.85 
April 1, 2024 
2.92 
October 1, 2024 
2.99 
April 1, 2025 
3.07 
October 1, 2025 
3.14 
April 1, 2026 
3.22 
October 1, 2026 
3.30 
April 1, 2027 
3.38 
October 1, 2027 
3.47 
April 1, 2028 
3.56 
October 1, 2028 
3.65 
April 1, 2029 
3.74 
October 1, 2029 
3.83 
April 1, 2030 
3.93 
October 1, 2030 
4.02 
April 1, 2031 
4.12 
October 1, 2031 
4.23 
April 1, 2032 
4.33 
October 1, 2032 
4.44 
April 1, 2033 
4.71 
19 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
20 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Annual Progress Report” means the annual report to be published by the Borrower 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement meeting the 
requirements set out in the Project Operations Manual. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“DGT” means the Borrower’s Directorate General of Taxes (Direktorat Jenderal Pajak)
in the Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Directorate of ICT Transformation” means the Directorate of ICT Transformation in 
DGT, and any successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“Directorate of Internal Compliance and Resources Transformation” means the 
Directorate of Internal Compliance and Resources Transformation in DGT, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“Directorate of Transformation of Business Processes” means the Directorate of 
Transformation of Business Processes in DGT, and any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Echelon” refers to an echelon, or level, in the civil service of the Borrower as in effect 
on the date of this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Executive Board” means the Executive Board of DGT operating in accordance with 
paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any successor entity 
thereto. 
 
11. 
“GAAP” means the Borrower’s Governance and Accountability Action Plan, setting 
forth the actions to be taken by the Borrower under the Project to promote good 
governance and accountability and included in the Project Operations Manual. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
13. 
“ICT” means information communications technology. 
 
21 
 
14. 
“Independent Bid Evaluation Consultant” means the independent procurement evaluation 
consultant procured by the Borrower to be financed by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund to 
Support Public Financial Management and Revenue Administration (TF070661) to 
provide an independent bid evaluation of each procurement activity under the Project. 
 
15. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
16. 
“Owner’s Agent” means the consultants for implementation support, validation and 
verification services, to be engaged by and reporting to the PIU pursuant to Section I.B.3 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
17. 
“PIU” means the Project implementation unit established in the Directorate of 
Transformation of Business Process in DGT in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section 
I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
18. 
“Part” means a part of the Project as described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
“Parts” refers to more than one Part. 
 
19. 
“Prior Review” means prior review under the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Committee” means each of the two procurement committees for the 
Project established and operating in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 27, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
23. 
“Project Director” means the head of the PIU and of the Project. 
 
24. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the Project Operations Manual referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Project Operations 
Manual may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
25. 
“Project Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Project Website” means the website to be established and maintained for the Project to 
provide public communications and disclosure as required by the Project Operations 
Manual. 
 
22 
 
27. 
“Steering Committee” means the high-level steering committee established and operating 
in accordance with paragraph 1 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
28. 
“TIN” means a taxpayer identification number. 
 
