CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7609-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Loan for the Bogotá Urban Services Project) 
 
between 
 
BOGOTÁ DISTRITO CAPITAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 23, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7609-CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 23, 2009 (the Agreement) entered into between 
BOGOTÁ DISTRITO CAPITAL (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing a 
loan (the Loan) to assist in financing the expansion of the activities related to the Original 
Project set forth in the Original Loan Agreement (all as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II —    LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000) 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
per cent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided that, 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its continued commitment to the objective of the Project.  
To this end, the Borrower shall:  (a) continue to carry out selected Parts of the 
Project as are set forth in the Original Loan Agreement with the entities 
described therein, and (b) maintain, for purposes of this Loan: 
 
(i) 
SDH responsible for carrying out Part C.7 of the Project;  
 
(ii) 
IDU responsible for carrying out Parts C.8 and C.9 of the 
Project; and 
 
(iii) 
SM, responsible for carrying out Part A.7 of the Project; 
 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.  
 
3.02 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
3
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and IDU, shall have 
been updated, satisfactory to the Bank, to reflect the implementation 
arrangements under this Loan. 
(b) 
The Current Operational Manual, including therein the EMP, RAP and 
Procurement Plan prepared for the Project to be financed under this 
Loan, shall each have been amended and updated, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to reflect the implementation arrangements in respect of this Loan. 
 
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Loan Agreement, but in 
no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on April 21, 2010. 
 
ARTICLE V— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Bogotá Distrito Capital 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda 
 
Carrera 30 No. 25-90, Oficina 601 
Bogotá, D.C., República de Colombia 
 
Facsimile:  
 
57-1-350-9891 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI)  
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
5
AGREED at Bogotá, Republic of Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
BOGOTÁ DISTRITO CAPITAL 
 
By /s/ Juan Ricardo Ortega López 
Authorized Representative  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT  
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts which: (a) maintain  the Original 
Project’s objective to improve the Borrower’s urban living conditions by increasing 
access, coverage, quality, reliability and inter-agency coordination in the provision of 
public transportation, sanitation services and potable water; and (b) are selectively 
integrated, for purposes of this Loan, in the Parts of the Original Project, as follows:  
 
1, 
Part A: Improved mobility (includes the following new activity): 
“7. 
The provision of technical advisory services and associated goods for the 
carrying out of design activities, studies, surveys, analytical research, social assessments 
and evaluations in technical, legal, policy, environmental and urban matters for the 
expansion and improvement of the Borrower’s integrated urban public transport network 
with special emphasis on the development of the first line of a proposed metro transport 
system.” 
2. 
Part C: Institutional Development (includes the following new activities): 
 “7. 
Provision of support, including technical advisory services and associated goods 
for the strengthening of the capacity of the Borrower in areas of fiscal management and 
urban planning and the establishment and operation of a spatially-based management 
model of international standard using geographic information  with a view to 
transforming the existing Cadastre Unit into a key management tool. 
8. 
Provision of support, including technical advisory services and associated goods 
for the strengthening of the Cadastre Unit to enable it to carry out activities in 
information technology capacity enhancement, social communication, preparation of 
technical and legal studies, institutional design and technical and institutional capacity 
building activities related to, inter alia:
(a) 
land tax valuation exercises, including the implementation of a policy 
reform package to mitigate social consequences of property tax 
increases; and  
 
(b) 
the elaboration and implementation of a medium-term program of 
operational reform, including an overall restructuring of the business 
model and institutional design of the Cadastre Unit to ensure inter-
operability with the Borrower’s  property registry and the public service 
providers. 
 
7
9. 
Provision of support, including technical advisory services and associated goods 
for the building of: 
(a) 
institutional capacity in IDU to improve its management; and 
 
(b) 
operational and technical capacity in selected IDU staff  to improve the 
Borrower’s road network management through, inter alia: (i) the 
carrying out of diagnostic research, surveys, studies and assessments to 
determine, among other aspects, the overall future maintenance and 
rehabilitation costs of the road network system, including in respect of  
pedestrian and vehicle bridges; and (ii) the  determination of the 
Borrower’s projected road system investment needs, including all 
available technical and financial options in relation thereto.” 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
The Borrower shall maintain, for purposes of the implementation of the Project’s 
additional activities and in respect of: (a) Part A.7 of the Project and (b) Parts 
C.7, C.8 and C.9 of the Project, all the institutional arrangements concerning 
SDH, SM and IDU as are set forth in the Original Loan Agreement, including the 
operation of a Project coordination unit in SDH, under the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Original Loan Agreement.   
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement  
1. 
The Borrower shall continue to carry out and maintain hereunder, satisfactory to 
the Bank, all the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement entered into 
with IDU for the carrying out of all the relevant activities under this Loan, except 
as required pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall continue to exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement entered into with IDU in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not under this Loan, assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive said Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions, 
except as required pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement. 
C. 
Implementation Documents 
 
1. 
The Borrower has revised, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, an operational 
manual dated July 2003, as amended to date, to include the specific requirements 
and guidelines of the additional activities financed under this Loan (Current 
Operational Manual) and which consists of different schedules, setting forth inter 
alia, detailed description of Project activities and relevant specifications in 
respect thereof, the rules, guidelines, methods, construction directives for works, 
specific development plans, standard documents and procedures to be maintained 
for the further carrying out of the Project.  
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Current Operational Manual shall conflict 
with any one under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Current Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time in 
consultation with, and after approval of, the Bank. 
9
D. 
 Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall continue to furnish to the Bank for approval, and to DNP for 
review, the Annual Action Plan in respect of all the activities to be carried out 
under the Project during the twelve months immediately following the 
presentation of each said plan; under terms and conditions specified in detail in 
the Original Loan Agreement. 
2. 
The Borrower shall continue to include in each annual budget proposed to its 
legislature, and make available each year of Project implementation, promptly as 
needed, in Pesos, the amounts required as counterpart funds for the Project. 
 
E. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall update the commitments and actions agreed between the 
Borrower and IDU under the Subsidiary Agreement entered with IDU, to ensure 
that the Borrower continues to carry out and cause  the Project to be carried out 
under this Loan, in accordance with all pertinent environmental and social 
safeguards as may be required by, and agreed with, the Bank for purposes of the 
additional Project activities set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
F.  
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the same arrangements for Project monitoring, 
reporting and evaluation as are set forth in the Original Loan Agreement, 
including with respect to the updated performance indicators for this Loan set 
forth in the Implementation Letter. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain all the arrangements for financial management, 
financial reports and audits of Project execution as are set forth in the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall, for purposes of this Loan, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
10
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Non-Consultant Services. All goods and Non-Consultant Services 
required for the Project under this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project under 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of the Original Loan Agreement. 
B. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan reflecting the arrangements under this Loan shall set forth 
those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the  Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to  finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
11
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Goods, Non-consultant services, 
consultant services and Training 
under Part A.7 of the Project 
 
 
16,100,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, Non-consultant services, 
consultant services and Training 
under Parts C.7, C.8 and C.9 of the 
Project  
 
13,900,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
30,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; and 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2011. 
12
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the  Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each  May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning on November 15, 2013 
 
Through May 15, 2018. 
 
10% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
13
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date, shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, if at any time 
the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions 
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made 
after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
14
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Cadastre Unit” means a unit under SDH (as hereinafter defined) responsible for 
managing the Borrower’s urban land and housing registry. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Current Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.C.1of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” mean the plan of 
actions dated November 2002, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the 
Borrower with the assistance of IDU, among other agencies, and revised for 
purposes of the additional activities set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
which sets out the objectives, policies, monitoring procedures, time schedules 
and other environmental provisions to mitigate adverse environmental effects in 
the carrying out of the Project.  
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
8. 
“IDU” means Instituto de Desarrollo Urbano, the Borrower’s Urban 
Development Institute or any successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank, setting forth revised Project monitoring indicators in 
respect of the additional activities set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
10. 
“Non-Consultant Services” means in respect of Categories 1 and 2 in the table of 
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, services to be contracted for the 
carrying out of activities related to the carrying out of, inter alia, social 
communication campaigns, including surveys and outreach programs. 
15
11. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank for the Bogotá Urban Services Project, dated June 04, 2003, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7162-CO). 
 
12. 
“Original Project” means the Project first described in the Original Loan 
Agreement.  
 
13. 
“Peso” means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s 2003 procurement plan for the Project 
referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 
of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean the  resettlement 
action plan prepared by IDU, satisfactory to the Bank,  in connection with the 
carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project, which sets out the principles and 
procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as defined in the Original Loan Agreement, as 
well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as such plan may be revised under this Loan in 
agreement with the Bank, for purposes of the implementation of the additional 
activities set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
17. 
“SDH” means Secretaría Distrital de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Finance or any successor thereto.  
 
18. 
“SM” means Secretaría de Movilidad, the Borrower’s Secretariat for Mobility, 
successor to “STT-FONDATT” or Fondo de Educación y Seguridad Vial de 
Tránsito y Transporte, the Borrower’s Fund for Transport, Transit and Safety 
Education, and made responsible under Section 3.01. (b) (iii) of this Agreement 
for the carrying out of selected activities under this Loan. 
 
19. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” mean the agreement dated July 2003, entered into 
between the Borrower and IDU as the same may be amended in agreement with 
the Bank, including for the implementation of the additional activities set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
20. 
“Training” means  in respect of Categories 1 and 2 of the table in Section IV.A 2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred to finance transportation costs and per-diem of trainees, rental 
16
of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and material under the 
Project. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modification to the General Conditions is as follows:   
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank has declared the Borrower (other than the 
Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or otherwise to participate in the 
preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the 
Bank, as a result of a determination by the Bank that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank” 
 
