CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7734-MU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 3, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7734-MU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 3, 2009, between the REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITIUS (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars  
(USD 50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Finance and Economic Empowerment. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the Project chart of accounts, reflecting 
the sources and expenditures by Project components and activities, satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economic 
Empowerment.   
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment 
Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN 
4247 
(230) 213 6450 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Port Louis, Republic of Mauritius, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
By /s/ Ramakrishna Sithanen 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ruth Kagia 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve the national 
infrastructure, with an emphasis on the transport, energy and water sectors. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1.
Road Investments
1.1 
Upgrading of Belle Rive – Quartier Militaire Road. Rehabilitation and widening 
 
of the Belle Rive – Quartier Militaire Road. 
1.2 
Periodic Maintenance.
Carrying out of significant, periodic maintenance to 
maintain road conditions for the highway sections of: (a) Terre Rouge – Quay D 
on M2 (five kilometers of a dual carriageway); (b) Nouvelle France – La Vigie 
on M1 (eight kilometers of a single carriageway); and (c) Pamplemousses-Grand 
Baie on A13 (four kilometers of a single carriageway). 
1.3 
Performance-based Routine Maintenance Contracts.
Design and execution of 
 
performance-based contracts for small-scale, routine maintenance of select roads, 
 
including the three roads referred to in Part 1.2 of the Project. 
Part 2.
Technical Assistance and Institutional Development in the 
Transport, Water and Wastewater, and Energy subsectors.
2.1. 
Preparation of the Public Sector Investment Program.
Provision of technical 
 
assistance and capacity building to assist in the finalization of the Borrower’s 
 
Public Sector Investment Program. 
2.2. 
Transport Sector.
(a) 
Setting 
up 
of 
the 
new 
Land 
Transport 
Authority 
(“LTA”)  
by: (i) planning and designing the LTA organizational structure; and  
(ii) ensuring the LTA is fully established and operational.  
 
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s agencies in charge of  
 
land transport by: (i) providing training in transportation related 
 
planning; (ii) providing management training; (iii) developing 
 
procedures and materials for, and providing training on, maintaining 
 
ethical standards and preventing corruption; and (iv) providing technical 
 
assistance to strengthen capacity on management of social and 
 
environmental issues.  
6
(c) 
Provision of training for the human resources department of the LTA to 
develop training programs, and a program targeting career development, 
for LTA staff. 
(d) 
Supervision 
and 
monitoring 
of 
the 
works 
to 
upgrade 
the  
Quartier Militaire Road, carried out under Part 1.1 of the Project. 
(e) 
Carrying out of transport studies in the urban transport sub-sector, 
including a bus rapid transit and bus reform implementation study. 
(f) 
Carrying out of studies relating to: (i) reform of the taxi industry; (ii) 
definition of a parking policy; (iii) development of a traffic management 
plan; and (iv) analysis of tolling options for road projects. 
(g) 
Provision of technical assistance to set up and purchase a road 
management system. 
(h) 
Provision of technical assistance to design and evaluate the  
performance-based contracts carried out under Part 1.3 of the Project. 
(i) 
Carrying out of a feasibility study for an extension of the Rodrigues 
airport. 
(j) 
Carrying out of feasibility studies, detailed design studies, environmental 
impact assessments, tender documents, and any related resettlement 
action plans for projects relating to roads, round-about replacements, and 
pavements. 
2.3 
Water Sector.
(a) 
Development of a master plan for water resources that will identify 
projects for the mobilization of additional water to meet the demands of 
different sectors of the Borrower’s economy, and include a proposal to 
rationalize water rights. 
 
(b) 
Capacity building of water sector professionals through relevant training. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out of relevant studies (such as feasibility studies, detailed 
 
design studies and environmental impact assessments) for the preparation 
 
of future water sector investment projects. 
 
(d) 
Updating of the Borrower’s 2003 study on the land drainage system  
 
of Mauritius to: (i) identify flood prone areas; (ii) examine catchment 
 
hydrology and watershed management; (iii) review and adapt  
 
the solutions proposed in 2003 to address the problems of  
7
flooding; and (iv) update the scope and cost estimates of the 
 
recommended remedial  work. 
 
(e) 
Reorganization of the Pollution Control Laboratory, including providing  
 
training and equipment, and building enforcement capacity. 
2.4. 
Wastewater Sector. Carrying out of feasibility and detailed engineering studies 
 
for the Borrower’s Baie de Tombeau Sewerage Project Phase III. 
2.5 
Energy Sector.
(a) 
Carrying out of a renewable energy development study to, inter alia:
(i) assess the economic viability of renewable energy technologies 
compared with conventional technologies for power; (ii) review issues 
and policy barriers affecting public and private sector development of 
such renewable energy technologies; and (iii) prepare a renewable 
energy development strategy, and a policy matrix and implementation 
plan for the period of 2009-2028, including identifying two renewable 
energy projects or programs to be taken to feasibility level. 
(b) 
Capacity building of the Ministry of Renewable Energy and Public 
Utilities (“MoREPU”) and the Central Electricity Board staff in relevant 
areas including renewable energy technology application, maintenance of 
separate distribution, transmission, and generation accounts. 
 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
1. 
The Project Plan Committee (“PPC”), under the aegis of the Ministry of Public 
Infrastructure, Land Transport and Shipping (“MoPILTS”), shall provide overall 
leadership for, and coordination and monitoring of, the Project.  The PPC shall be chaired 
by a Director of MoPILTS, with representatives from the MoREDU, MoFEE, MoENDU, 
RDA and any other Borrower agency that will be involved in major aspects of the 
Project.  The PPC shall be responsible for, inter alia: (a) providing strategic guidance and 
oversight of the Project implementation; (b) furnishing to the Bank consolidated Project 
reports (referred to in Section II of this Schedule) that will be prepared by the responsible 
ministries and agencies (referred to in Part A.3 of this Section); (c) proactively addressing 
any significant problems affecting Project implementation; (d) approving the annual 
Project work programs and budgets, the design and implementation of monitoring  
and evaluation studies, and the addressing of technical issues in relation to the  
Project; (e) consolidating the annual procurement plans and cash flow projections 
prepared by the responsible ministries and agencies; (f) ensuring effective coordination 
and integration of the Project arrangements with the Public Sector Investment Program, 
the other activities of the responsible ministries and agencies, and the arrangements with 
other development partners; and (g) providing technical input on strategic documents, 
analytical work, and  initiatives related to the Project, in close collaboration with the 
responsible ministries and agencies. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, a program 
manager, who shall be responsible for supporting the PPC in the management of the 
Project, including in the areas of: (a) Project supervision, financial management, records 
and account maintenance, procurement, monitoring and evaluation; (b) coordination of 
Project with other relevant activities of the MoREPU, MoPILTS, RDA, MoFEE and 
other stakeholders; and (c) provision of general support to any committees, working 
groups or similar bodies established for the preparation, implementation and/or 
supervision of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out:  
(a) 
Parts 1, 2.2(d), 2.2(g), 2.2(h) and 2.2(j) of the Project through the Road 
Development Authority (“RDA”), which shall (i) conduct the related 
procurement activities, including preparing the related engineering 
designs and bidding documents, and (ii) supervise the contracts under 
9
Part 1 of the Project, including measuring the progress in the execution 
of the works for the purpose of issuing certifications, technical quality 
control and ensuring compliance with the technical specifications of the 
related contracts; 
(b) 
Parts 2.1, 2.2(a), 2.2(b), 2.2(c), 2.2(e) and 2.2(f) of the Project through 
the MoPILTS; 
(c) 
Part 2.2(i) of the Project through the MoFEE;  
(d) 
Parts 2.3(a), 2.3(b), 2.3(c), 2.3(e), and 2.4 of the Project through the 
MoREPU, with substantive input from the Water Resources Unit 
(“WRU”) for water resources related activities and the Wastewater 
Management Authority (“WMA”) for sewerage related activities.  For 
these Parts of the Project, the WRU and WMA, in their respective areas, 
shall be responsible for (i) carrying the related procurement activities, (ii) 
reviewing the related studies, and (iii) monitoring the related progress, 
with support from other agencies including the Irrigation Authority for 
irrigation sector issues, and the Central Electricity Board for energy 
sector issues;  
(e) 
Part 2.3(d) of the Project through the Ministry of Environment and 
National Development Unit (“MoENDU”); and 
(f) 
Part 2.5 of the Project through the MoREPU, with input from the Central 
Electricity Board. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each ministry or agency referred to in Part A.3 of 
this Section maintains focal points, who will be designated respectively by the 
head of the ministry or agency concerned.  Each focal point shall be responsible 
for: (a) the day-to-day implementation of the relevant Project activities, in line 
with the annual work programs and budgets approved by the Project Plan 
Committee (as referred to in Part A.1 of this Section), including (i) managing the 
technical aspects of the Project activities, (ii) preparing the terms of reference for, 
and supervising, the relevant consultants, and (iii) coordinating with all relevant 
stakeholders and government agencies; (b)  programming of the annual work 
programs and budget for the relevant Project activities; (c) monitoring and 
reporting of the relevant Project activities; and (d) carrying out of the relevant 
public relations. 
5. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the 
Recipient shall ensure that: 
10 
 
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the PIOM, including without 
limitation the Land Acquisition Plan, and financial management and 
procurement arrangements satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b) 
the PIOM or any part thereof is not amended, waived, suspended or 
abrogated without the Bank’s prior written concurrence, and in case of 
any inconsistency between the provisions of the PIOM and those of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
6. 
For the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the financing 
of the land acquisition payments under Part 1.1 of the Project, effecting full and 
prompt payment to Affected Persons, and fulfilling the actions referred to in 
Section IV.B.1(b) of Schedule 2, the Borrower shall:  
(a)  
allocate to the Ministry of Housing and Lands an amount equivalent to 
the aggregate value (determined in accordance with the valuation method 
set forth in the Land Acquisition Plan) of the land that the Borrower 
proposes to acquire or has acquired, as the case may be, for the purposes 
of Part 1.1 of the Project; and ensure that such amount is properly 
recorded in a separate ledger account maintained by the Ministry of 
Housing and Lands until all Affected Persons concerned have been paid 
in full; and 
 (b) 
maintain, and adhere to, policies and procedures in the PIOM satisfactory 
to the Bank that provide, inter alia, the following: 
(i) 
before any land may be compulsorily acquired for the purposes 
of the Project, the Borrower shall (A) carry out and complete an 
investigation, as well as a precise survey and valuation of all 
land proposed for acquisition, (B) determine the land value in 
accordance with the valuation method stipulated in the Land 
Acquisition Plan (“Land Value”), (C) offer to each Affected 
Person who has legal right or title to such land the Land Value 
determined for the respective land proposed for acquisition, 
providing adequate time, which shall be no less than 21 calendar 
days from the date of the notice of offer, for the Affected Person 
to consider such offer, and (D) provide to Affected Persons who 
do not have legal right or title to such land that they are 
occupying, if any, assistance to replace Non-Land Assets; 
(ii) 
the Borrower shall fully and timely release the funds held in the 
account referred to in paragraph 6(a) above in the following 
manner: 
11 
 
(A) 
if an Affected Person accepts the offer made pursuant to 
paragraph 6(b)(i)(C) above, the Borrower shall fully release and 
deliver such funds, in the name of the Affected Person, to the 
notary public appointed by the Solicitor General or selected by 
the Affected Person, as the case may be, to draw up the deed of 
aquittance, with express instructions that, upon the signing of 
such deed by the Affected Person, the said funds shall be 
promptly released to the Affected Person, and that such payment 
shall in any event be made no later than 60 calendar days from 
the date of the Borrower’s receipt of the Affected Person’s notice 
of acceptance, unless such payment is reasonably delayed due to 
the existence of one or more of the circumstances described in 
paragraphs 6(b)(iii)(B) and 6(b)(iii)(C) below;   
 
(B) 
if the offer made pursuant to paragraph 6(b)(i)(C) above 
is not accepted, the Affected Person and the Borrower may seek 
agreement on another amount (“Counter Offer”).   Upon a notice 
of acceptance by either the Borrower or the Affected Person, as 
the case may be, of the Counter Offer, the Borrower shall fully 
release and deliver such funds, in the name of the Affected 
Person, to the notary public appointed by the Solicitor General or 
selected by the Affected Person, as the case may be, to draw up 
the deed of acquittance, with express instructions that, upon the 
signing of such deed by the Affected Person, the said funds shall 
be promptly released to the Affected Person, and that such 
payment shall in any event be made no later than 60 calendar 
days from the date of the Borrower’s receipt of the Affected 
Person’s notice of acceptance, unless such payment is reasonably 
delayed due to the existence of one or more of the circumstances 
described in paragraphs 6(b)(iii)(B) and 6(b)(iii)(C) below; 
 
(C) 
if a claim for compensation is referred to the Board of 
Assessment, the Borrower shall deliver the amount awarded by 
the Board of Assessment to the Registry of the Supreme Court, 
in the name of, for release to, the Affected Person, and make best 
reasonable efforts to ensure that the funds are paid to the 
Affected Person within 60 days of the decision of the Board of 
Assessment, unless either the Affected Person or the Borrower 
files an appeal with the Supreme Court against the award; 
 
(D) 
if an appeal of the Board of Assessment’s award is made 
to the Supreme Court, the Borrower shall promptly deliver the 
amount of the Supreme Court judgment to the Registry of the 
Supreme Court, in the name of, and for release to, the Affected 
Person, and make best reasonable efforts to ensure that the funds 
12 
 
are paid to the Affected Person within 60 calendar days of the 
date of the Supreme Court judgment, unless either the Affected 
Person or the Borrower files an appeal with the Privy Council 
against the judgment; and 
 
(E) 
if an appeal of the Supreme Court’s judgment is finally 
made to the Privy Council, the Borrower shall deliver the 
amount of the Privy Council judgment to the Registry of the 
Supreme Court, in the name of, and for release to, the Affected 
Person, and make best reasonable efforts to ensure that the funds 
are paid to the Affected Person within 60 calendar days of the 
date of the Privy Council judgment. 
(iii) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 6(b)(ii) above: 
(A) 
in the event that an Affected Person does not respond to 
the notice of offer referred to in paragraph 6(b)(i)(C) above, the 
Borrower shall continue to hold the related funds in the account 
referred to in paragraph 6(a) above until at least the completion 
of the Project; 
(B) 
in the event that the ownership of the land is in dispute, 
the Borrower shall continue to hold the related funds in the 
account referred to in paragraph 6(a) above until either the 
disputing parties come to a mutual agreement on the matter of 
ownership or there is a final judicial settlement of the dispute 
and thereafter, the Borrower shall promptly implement the 
measures stipulated in paragraph 6(b)(ii) above; and 
(C) 
in the event that the payments cannot not be made in 
accordance with paragraph 6(b)(ii) above because the Affected 
Person must take certain actions to (1) resolve an encumbrance, 
such as a claim, lien, charge or other liability attached to the land 
concerned, or (2) furnish appropriate evidence, such as proof of 
identity or ownership of the land, or (3) be present, or 
alternatively provide appropriate power of attorney, for the 
purposes of accepting payment and signing the deed of 
acquittance, the Borrower shall provide instruction to the 
relevant authorities that such payments shall be promptly made 
to the Affected Person upon the Affected Person’s resolution of 
such issue(s). 
7. 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Land Acquisition Act to the contrary, the 
Borrower shall acquire land for the purposes of Part 1.1 of the Project, and shall 
commence works on the same, only after offering and, as the case may be, 
13 
 
making payments to, or setting aside funds for the purpose of making payments 
to, the Affected Persons in a manner consistent with the provisions of paragraph 
6 of this Section I.A. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption. The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Plan;  
(b) 
any land acquisition under the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the Land Acquisition Plan; 
(c) 
the Bank is promptly informed of any developments in the legislation or 
regulation of the Borrower and/or the rules or procedures of the 
Borrower that may affect the performance of the Project or the 
application of the Environmental Management Plan or the Land 
Acquisition Plan; and 
(d) 
the Borrower’s ministries and agencies, which provide services under the 
Project, are made aware of the requirements of the Environmental 
Management Plan and the Land Acquisition Plan, as relevant, and take 
all actions necessary to support the carrying out of the Project in 
compliance with such requirements. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports.   
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
14 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
15 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding  
(subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Part B) 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
3. 
Exceptions to National Competitive Bidding Procedures.  The following 
provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods and works under National 
Competitive Bidding procedures: (a) foreign bidders shall be allowed  
to participate in National Competitive Bidding procedures without restrictions  
of any kind; (b) bidders shall be given at least one month to submit bids from the 
date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, 
whichever is later; (c) no domestic preference shall be given for domestic bidders 
and for domestically manufactured goods; and (d) in accordance with paragraph 
1.14(e) of the Procurement Guidelines, each bidding document and contract 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that (i) the bidders, 
suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and performance 
of the contract, and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank, and (ii) the deliberate and material violation by the 
bidder, supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such provision may account to an 
obstructive practice as defined in paragraph 1.14(a)(v) of the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
16 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a)  Selection under a Fixed Budget  
(b)  Least Cost Selection  
(c)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  Single Source Selection 
(e)  Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation  
of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures 
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
17 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
(1)  Goods, works, 
consultants’ services and 
training for the Project, 
except Parts 1.1, 2.2(a) and 
2.2(c) 
27,525,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for  
Part 1.1 of the Project 
 
21,600,000 
 
100% 
(3)  Goods, consultants’ 
services and training for 
Parts 2.2(a) and 2.2(c)  
 
750,000 
 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
 125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT  
50,000,000 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” means reasonable 
expenditure directly related to the provision of training under Parts 2.2, 2.3 and 
2.5 of the Project. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after December 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1);  
 
(b) 
for payments under Category (2), unless and until the Borrower shall 
have (i) furnished a survey and valuation, satisfactory to the Bank, of the 
land proposed for compulsory acquisition, (ii) established the separate 
ledger account referred to in Section I.A.6(a) of Schedule 2 to this 
18 
 
Agreement, and (iii) recorded into said account the aggregate amount of 
the value of the land allocated to the Ministry of Housing and Lands, as 
referred to in said Section I.A.6(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
for payments made under Category (3), unless the legislation establishing 
the LTA has been enacted. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
19 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2015  
 
through January 15, 2029 
 
3.33% 
On July 15, 2029 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
20 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
21 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, solely on account of the execution of the 
activities under Part 1.1 of the Project have or would have their: (a) standard of 
living adversely affected; or (b) right, title, or interest in any house, land 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable 
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; “Affected 
Person” means individually all those who qualify as Affected Persons. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006.  
3. 
“Baie de Tombeau Sewerage Project Phase III” means the Borrower’s project to 
connect an additional 7,800 households to the sewerage network in Le Hochet, 
Riche Terre, Terre Rouge and adjoining areas. 
4. 
“Board of Assessment” means the board appointed in accordance with the Land 
Acquisition Act (as defined herein). 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“Central Electricity Board” means the Borrower’s parastatal body that is 
responsible for public sector electricity generation and all transmission and 
distribution. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
8. 
“Director” means a director of MoPILTS (as defined herein). 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s guidelines for 
environmental management, satisfactory to the Bank and approved by the RDA 
(as defined herein), on October, 10, 2008, that sets forth the environmental 
polices and procedures that shall apply to the carrying out of the Project.  
10. 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means the Borrower’s environmental  
study, satisfactory to the Bank and approved by the Ministry of  
Environment & National Development Unit on August 28, 2008, that identifies 
and assesses the potential environmental impacts of the Project, evaluates 
22 
 
alternatives, and designs appropriate mitigation, management and monitoring 
measures.  
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
12. 
“Land Acquisition Act” means the Act No. 54 of 1973, assented on December 
18, 1973. 
13. 
“Land Acquisition Plan” means the Borrower’s resettlement action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank and approved by the RDA (as defined herein) on  
May 13, 2009, that sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement, compensation of persons affected by the Project  
(as elaborated in the Land Acquisition Plan), as well as administrative, reporting 
and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, as such plan 
may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
14. 
“Land Value” means the land value referred to in paragraph 6(b)(i) of Section I.A 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
15. 
“LTA” means the Borrower’s Land Transport Authority referred to in Part 2.2 of 
the Project. 
16. 
“MoENDU” means the Ministry of Environment and National Development 
Unit, or any successor thereto.  
17. 
“MoFEE” means the Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment, or any 
successor thereto.  
18. 
“MoPILTS” means the Ministry of Public Infrastructure, Land Transport and 
Shipping, or any successor thereto. 
19. 
“MoREPU” means the Ministry of Renewable Energy and Public Utilities, or any 
successor thereto. 
20. 
“Non-Land Assets” means fixed immovable structures and crop or agricultural 
produce lost solely on account of the execution of the activities under Part 1.1 of 
the Project. 
21. 
“PIOM” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation and Operational Manual, 
dated May 13, 2009, including without limitation the Land Acquisition Plan and 
all appendices and schedules thereto, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth 
the policies and procedures that apply to the carrying out of the Project, as 
referred to in Section I, Part A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
23 
 
22. 
“Pollution Control Laboratory” means the Borrower’s laboratory in charge of 
monitoring the quality of water resources in Mauritius, or any successor thereto.  
23. 
“PPC” means the Project Plan Committee, as referred to in Section I, Part A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
24. 
“Privy Council” means Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council, a body of 
advisors to the British Sovereign.
25. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006.  
26. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 16, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
27. 
“Public Sector Investment Program” means the Borrower’s multi-annual program 
that is intended to present a set of investment projects on a sector basis for 
implementation.  
28. 
“RDA” means the Borrower’s Road Development Authority, which was 
established by Road Development Authority Act, Act No. 6 of 1998, or any 
successor thereto. 
29. 
“Roads Act” means the Act No. 29 of 1966, proclaimed by Proclamation No. 7 
on May 15, 1967.  
30. 
“Supreme Court” means the court established and defined under the Constitution 
of Mauritius. 
31. 
“Treasury Department” means the Borrower’s department in the MoFEE  
(as defined herein) that is responsible for the management of the bank account of 
the government.  
32. 
“WMA” means the Borrower’s Wastewater Management Authority established 
under the Wastewater Management Authority Act, or any successor thereto. 
33. 
“Wastewater Management Authority Act” means the Act No. 39 of 2000, 
published in the Government Gazette of Mauritius No. 127 of December 2, 2000, 
and proclaimed on August 30, 2001. 
 
34. 
“WRU” means the Water Resources Unit that is established under MoREPU  
(as defined herein), or any successor thereto.  
24 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 (b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
25 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
