CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7616-CN 
 
Loan Agreement  
 
(Wenchuan Earthquake Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 20, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 20, 2009, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seven hundred ten million 
Dollars ($710,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by Sichuan and Gansu 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 68-55-11-25 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Li Yong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ James W. Adams 
4
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to restore essential infrastructure, health, and 
education services to at least levels existing prior to the Wenchuan Earthquake and, 
where appropriate, to provide for expansion of services, while reducing the vulnerability 
to seismic and flood hazards and building capacity of local governments to manage the 
recovery program. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Sichuan Recovery Program 
 
(a) 
Carrying out of Sub-projects in Sichuan Province consisting of:  
 
(i) 
the reconstruction and appropriate expansion of infrastructure 
facilities in  Selected Project Counties in the municipalities of 
Mianyang, Guangyuan, Bazhong, Nanchong and Ya’an through, 
inter alia, provision of civil works, necessary equipment and 
supplies; and   
 
(ii)  
the reconstruction and appropriate expansion of health facilities 
in Selected Project Counties in the municipalities of Mianyang, 
Guangyuan, Bazhong, Nanchong, Ya’an, Chengdu and Deyang 
through, inter alia,
provision of civil works, necessary 
equipment and supplies. 
 
(b) 
Preparation and management of Sub-projects under Parts 1(a)(i) and 
1(a)(ii) of the Project, including carrying out social assessments, 
preparing technical designs, surveys and adverse impact mitigation plans, 
and carrying out tendering management, construction supervision and 
monitoring. 
 
(c)  
Strengthening the capacity of Provincial, municipal and county level 
staff of Sichuan Province for carrying out Parts 1(a)(i), 1(a)(ii) and 1(b) 
of the Project through, inter alia, training and provision of consultants’ 
services. 
 
Part 2: Gansu Recovery Program 
 
(a) 
Carrying out of Sub-projects in Gansu Province consisting of: 
 
(i) 
the reconstruction and appropriate expansion of infrastructure 
facilities in Selected Project Counties in Longnan Municipality 
6
through, inter alia,
provision of civil works, necessary 
equipment and supplies;  
 
(ii)  
the reconstruction and appropriate expansion of health facilities 
in Selected Project Counties in Longnan Municipality through, 
inter alia, provision of civil works, necessary equipment and 
supplies; and  
 
(iii)  
the reconstruction and appropriate expansion of education 
facilities in  Selected Project Counties in Longnan Municipality 
through, inter alia,
provision of civil works, necessary 
equipment and supplies. 
 
(b) 
Preparation and management of Sub-projects under Part 2(a) of the 
Project, including carrying out social assessments, preparing technical 
designs, surveys and adverse impact mitigation plans, and carrying out 
tendering management, construction supervision and monitoring. 
 
(c)  
Strengthening the capacity of Provincial, Longnan Municipal and county 
level staff of Gansu Province for carrying out Parts 2(a) and 2(b) of the 
Project through, inter alia, training, and provision of consultants’ 
services. 
 
.
7
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Institutional 
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to Sichuan and Gansu the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the Categories for each such Province as set 
forth in the table in Section IV of this Schedule, in the following principal 
amounts: (a) to Sichuan an amount not to exceed in the aggregate $510,000,000; 
and (b) to Gansu an amount not to exceed in the aggregate $200,000,000, or such 
other amounts as the Borrower and the Bank may agree from time to time. The 
principal amount shall be made available without requiring any repayment, fees 
or charges from Sichuan and Gansu. 
 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreements.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than September 1, 2014. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
8
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester of the 
Borrower’s fiscal year. The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of such 
period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods manufactured in 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
9
Procurement Method 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding in accordance with procedures set 
out in paragraph 3 below 
(b)  
Shopping 
(c)      Direct Contracting 
(d)  
Force Account 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for procuring goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement 
Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except contracts for 
works estimated to cost less than US$2,000,000 equivalent each or goods 
contracts that are estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent 
each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper or the 
provincial government’s public tendering website. Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their 
responses.  In any event, the period of time between advertisement and 
availability of prequalification or bidding documents and the deadline for 
submission of responses, shall be at least 14 (fourteen) days in the case 
of urgently-required contracts and 30 (thirty) days in the case of non-
urgent contracts as set out in the Operations Manual and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission.  
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be invited to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the purchaser in case of breach of the bidding conditions by the 
10
bidder, and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and 
amount of such security. In place of a bid security, the bidding 
documents may require that a bidder submit with its bid a signed 
declaration that, if the bidder withdraws its bid during the bid validity 
period or, if awarded the contract, the bidder fails to sign the contract or 
to submit any required performance security before the deadline required 
in the bidding documents, the bidder will be suspended for a period of 
two (2) years from being awarded any contract with the Borrower, Gansu 
or Sichuan, including any of their departments, agencies or 
administrative units.  
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for submission of 
such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present, either in person or through their 
representatives, at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate or margin or bracket of average bid prices 
established by the Borrower. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards 
of capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
For each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan, the bidding 
documents and contract shall provide that bidders, suppliers and 
contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts 
and records relating to bid submission and contract performance and to 
have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
11
(xi) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are 
not a dependent enterprise of the entity conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of bids is less 
than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding shall not take place 
without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national press or provincial press (as provided under 3(i) above) or 
official gazette or  a free and open access website and shall identify the 
name and offered price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
Sichuan and Gansu shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Individual Consultants 
(d)  
Single Source Selection 
3. 
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than an amount 
established by the Bank from time to time may comprise entirely of national 
consultants. 
12
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more; 
(b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
(c) the first contract for works and the first contract for goods procured by a 
Selected Project County through Shopping; (d) each contract for works and each 
contract for goods procured by a Selected Project County through Direct 
Contracting; (e) each contract for works procured by a Selected Project County 
through Force Account; (f) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (g) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more; and  (h) each contract for consultants’ services to be selected 
on a Single Source basis.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by 
the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures, inclusive of 
taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
13
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed 
in Dollars) 
 
% of Expenditures to  
be Financed 
 
1. Sichuan 
 
Infrastructure 
(a) Goods and works for Sub-
projects under Part 1(a)(i) of 
the Project 
 
432,400,000
100%  
(b)  Consultants’ services and 
training under Parts 1(b) and 
1(c) of the Project related to 
infrastructure Sub-projects 
 
17,600,000
100% 
Health 
(c)  Goods and works for Sub-
projects under Part 1(a)(ii) of 
the Project 
 
57,600,000
100% 
(d)  Consultants’ services and 
training under Parts 1(b) and 
1(c) of the Project related to 
health Sub-projects 
 
2,400,000
100% 
2. Gansu 
 
(a)  Goods and works for Sub-
projects under Part 2(a) of the 
Project 
 
196,000,000
100%  
(b)  Consultants’ services and 
training under Parts 2(b) and 
2(c) of the Project 
 
4,000,000
100% 
TOTAL 
710,000,000
14
 
(b) 
in respect of expenditures under:  
 
(i)  
Category 1 unless Sichuan has adopted: (A) an Operations 
Manual; (B) an Environmental and Social Screening and 
Assessment Framework; (C) a Financial Management Manual; 
and (D) a Procurement Plan, all in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; and 
 
(ii)  
Category 2 unless Gansu has adopted: (A) an Operations 
Manual; (B) an Environmental and Social Screening and 
Assessment Framework; (C) a Financial Management Manual; 
and (D) a Procurement Plan, all in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
 
(c)  
in respect of expenditures under a Sub-project under Category 1(a), 1(c) 
or 2(a) unless: 
 
(i) 
the Bank has received confirmation from the Borrower in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank that the appropriate 
governmental authorities of the Borrower and Sichuan or Gansu, 
as 
the 
case 
may 
be, 
have 
provided 
all 
required 
clearances/approvals, including environmental clearances, for 
implementing the Sub-project; and 
 
(ii) 
the Bank has either: 
 
(A)  
authorized withdrawals under said Sub-project as set out 
in paragraph 7(a) of Section I.D of the Schedule to the 
Sichuan Project Agreement or the Gansu Project 
Agreement respectively; or  
 
(B)  
approved said Sub-project as set out in paragraph 7(b) of 
Section I.D of the Schedule to the Sichuan Project 
Agreement 
or 
the 
Gansu 
Project 
Agreement 
respectively; and 
 
(d)  
in respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals up to an amount not to exceed $142,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after  
May 12, 2008 for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
 
15
 SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 15, 2014 
2% 
October 15, 2014 
2% 
April 15, 2015 
2% 
October 15, 2015 
2% 
April 15, 2016 
2% 
October 15, 2016 
2% 
April 15, 2017 
2% 
October 15, 2017 
2% 
April 15, 2018 
2% 
October 15, 2018 
2% 
April 15, 2019 
2% 
October 15, 2019 
2% 
April 15, 2020 
2% 
October 15, 2020 
2% 
April 15, 2021 
2% 
October 15, 2021 
2% 
April 15, 2022 
2% 
October 15, 2022 
2% 
April 15, 2023 
2% 
October 15, 2023 
2% 
April 15, 2024 
2% 
October 15, 2024 
2% 
April 15, 2025 
2% 
October 15, 2025 
2% 
April 15, 2026 
2% 
October 15, 2026 
2% 
16
April 15, 2027 
2% 
October 15, 2027 
2% 
April 15, 2028 
2% 
October 15, 2028 
2% 
April 15, 2029 
2% 
October 15, 2029 
2% 
April 15, 2030 
2% 
October 15, 2030 
2% 
April 15, 2031 
2% 
October 15, 2031 
2% 
April 15, 2032 
2% 
October 15, 2032 
2% 
April 15, 2033 
2% 
October 15, 2033 
2% 
April 15, 2034 
2% 
October 15, 2034 
2% 
April 15, 2035 
2% 
October 15, 2035 
2% 
April 15, 2036 
2% 
October 15, 2036 
2% 
April 15, 2037 
2% 
October 15, 2037 
2% 
April 15, 2038 
2% 
October 15, 2038 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
17
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
18
SCHEDULE 4 
 
List of Selected Project Counties 
 
A. 
List of Selected Project Counties for Part 1(a)(i) of the Project 
 
Fucheng District, Youxian District, Zitong County, Yanting County, Santai 
County and Jiangyou City in Mianyang Municipality; Chaotian District, Lizhou 
District, Yuanba District, Wangcang County and Cangxi County in Guangyuan 
Municipality; Nanjiang County in Bazhong Municipality; Langzhong City in 
Nanchong Municipality; Lushan County, Baoxing County and Shimian County 
in Ya’an Municipality. 
 
B. 
List of Selected Project Counties for Part 1(a)(ii) of the Project 
 
Dayi County in Chengdu Municipality; Jingyang District, Luojiang County, 
Guanghan City and Zhongjiang County in Deyang Municipality; Fucheng 
District, Youxian District, Zitong County, Yanting County and Santai County in 
Mianyang Municipality; Chaotian District, Yuanba District, Wangcang County 
and Cangxi County in Guangyuan Municipality; Nanjiang County in Bazhong 
Municipality; Langzhong City in Nanchong Municipality; Lushan County, 
Baoxing County and Shimian County in Ya’an Municipality. 
 
C. 
List of Selected Project Counties for Part 2 of the Project 
 
Xihe County, Cheng County, Hui County, Wudu District, Kang County, Wen 
County and Liangdang County in Longnan Municipality. 
 
19
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Cultural Property Management Plan” means the plan to be prepared and adopted 
by Sichuan or Gansu for each Sub-project that involves the restoration and 
preservation of historic or archeological sites as such Plan may be required 
pursuant to the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework. 
 
5. 
“Dam Safety Plan” means the plan to be prepared and adopted by Sichuan or 
Gansu for each Sub-project that involves the construction, repair, or 
rehabilitation of dams as such Plan may be required pursuant to the 
Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework, such plan to 
set out, inter alia, the policies, procedures, mechanisms and actions for carrying 
out the necessary remedial works, including establishing a panel of experts and 
carrying out inspection and evaluation of the safety status of any dam located 
upstream of such dam that rely on the performance of such upstream dam and 
carrying out  remedial works for such upstream dam as necessary.  
 
6. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
7. 
“Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework” and the 
acronym “ESSAF” mean the framework, satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted 
by Sichuan and Gansu as referred to in paragraph B.1(b) of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and included in the Operations Manual, setting 
out, inter alia, the policies, procedures, guidelines and arrangements for carrying 
out environmental and social screening of each Sub-project to determine the 
20
mechanisms and actions to be adopted for mitigating any adverse environmental 
and social impacts from the implementation of the Sub-project and for such 
purpose to carry out an Environmental Assessment and a Social Assessment and, 
based on the results of such Assessments, to prepare, where applicable, for the 
approval of the Bank, an Environmental Management Plan, a Resettlement 
Action Plan, an Ethnic Minority Community Plan, a Cultural Property 
Management Plan and a Dam Safety Plan for the Sub-project.  
 
8. 
“Environmental Assessment” and the acronym “EA” mean the environmental 
assessment to be carried out by Sichuan or Gansu for each Sub-project pursuant 
to the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework setting 
forth, inter alia, the assessment of the environmental impacts of the Sub-project, 
recommendations for mitigation of adverse impacts and enhancement of positive 
impacts based on such assessment, and the guidelines for the preparation and 
adoption of an Environmental Management Plan, including arrangements for  
monitoring of such Plan during Sub-project implementation.  
 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” mean the plan to be 
prepared and adopted by Sichuan or Gansu for each Sub-project as may be 
required pursuant to the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment 
Framework setting out, inter alia, the policies, procedures, mechanisms and 
actions for mitigating the adverse environmental impacts resulting from the 
implementation of the Sub-project, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said Plan.  
 
10. 
“Ethnic Minority Community Plan” and the acronym “EMCP” mean the plan to 
be prepared and adopted by Sichuan or Gansu for each Sub-project as may be 
required pursuant to the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment 
Framework with the objective of avoiding cultural, social and economic adverse 
effects on  ethnic minorities caused or likely to be caused by the Sub-project, and 
through a process of informed consultation and participation, involving 
concerned ethnic minorities in the design and implementation of the Sub-project 
so as to ensure that the benefits received by the ethnic minorities under the Sub-
project are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences and 
protect their customary user rights. 
 
11. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the Financial Management Manual to be 
adopted by Sichuan and Gansu as referred to in paragraph B.1(b) of Section IV 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and included in the Operations Manual setting 
out, inter alia, the policies, procedures and guidelines for establishing and 
maintaining a financial management system to be implemented by Gansu and 
Sichuan, respectively, in carrying out their relevant activities under the Project, 
including internal controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset management, 
withdrawal 
application 
procedures, 
financial 
reporting, 
and 
auditing 
arrangements. 
21
12. 
“Feasibility Study Report” means the report to be prepared by Sichuan or Gansu 
for each Sub-project in accordance with the Operations Manual and including 
detailed information on Sub-project feasibility, technical specifications and 
standards, cost estimates, construction and procurement arrangements, and 
arrangements for operation and maintenance. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modification set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
14. 
“Gansu” means the Borrower’s Province of Gansu, and any successor thereto.  
 
15. 
“Gansu Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Gansu 
of even date herewith relating to implementation of Part 2 of the Project, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules 
and agreements supplemental to the Gansu Project Agreement. 
 
16. 
“National Masterplan” means the National Masterplan for the Rehabilitation and 
Reconstruction of Wenchuan Earthquake dated September 19, 2008 adopted by 
the Borrower for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of areas affected by the 
Wenchuan Earthquake. 
 
17. 
“Operations Manuals” means collectively each Operations Manual to be adopted 
by Sichuan and Gansu for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, respectively, as referred to 
in paragraph B.1(b) of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement which sets out 
a framework, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with which the activities 
under the Project will be screened, appraised, approved, implemented, supervised 
and evaluated, and includes, inter alia, the: (i) Project implementation 
arrangements; (ii) criteria and procedures for the eligibility, selection, appraisal 
and approval of Sub-projects; (iii) supervision and acceptance procedures for 
reimbursement purposes; (iv) procurement procedures set forth in Section III 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and standard procurement documentation; (v) 
reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures; 
(vi) the Financial Management Manual; (vii) the Environmental and Social 
Screening and Assessment Framework; (viii) the Project Performance Indicators 
as set forth in the Annex 1 to the Schedule to the Project Agreements; and (ix) 
the monitoring and evaluation framework; as said Operations Manual may be 
revised or supplemented from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; 
and “Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual of Sichuan or Gansu as 
the context may require. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
22
19. 
“Procurement Plans” means collectively each Procurement Plan to be adopted by 
Sichuan and Gansu for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project respectively as referred to in 
paragraph B.1(b) of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and referred to 
in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs; and “Procurement Plan” 
means the Procurement Plan of Sichuan or Gansu as the context may require. 
 
20. 
“Project Area” means the area comprising the Selected Project Counties of 
Sichuan and Gansu as set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
21. 
“Project Agreements” means the Sichuan Project Agreement and the Gansu 
Project Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Project Implementing Entities” means collectively Gansu and Sichuan, and 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Gansu when used in the Gansu Project 
Agreement and Sichuan when used in the Sichuan Project Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and the acronym “RAP” mean the plan to be adopted 
by Sichuan or Gansu for a Sub-project pursuant to the Environmental and Social 
Screening and Assessment Framework setting out, inter alia, the policies and 
procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of 
Displaced Persons on account of the implementation of the Sub-project, and 
developed through a process of informed consultation and participation, 
involving concerned Displaced Persons in the design and implementation of the 
Sub-project, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said Plan. 
 
24. 
“Safeguards Plans” means collectively the Cultural Property Management Plan, 
the Dam Safety Plan, the Environmental Management Plan, the Ethnic Minority 
Community Plan, and the Resettlement Action Plan which may be required to be 
prepared for a Sub-project by Sichuan or Gansu pursuant to the provisions of the 
ESSAF and the Operations Manual; and “Safeguards Plan” means any such Plan 
individually. 
 
25. 
“Selected Project Counties” means the following Counties, Cities and Districts 
classified in the National Master Plan as severely affected by the Wenchuan 
Earthquake and selected by the Borrower and the Bank to be eligible for 
receiving financing under the Project, and includes any other County, City or 
District listed in the National Master Plan that may be selected by agreement 
amongst the Borrower, the Bank and the Province of Gansu or the Province of 
Sichuan, as the case may be, to be eligible for receiving financing under the 
Project: 
 
23
(a)  
in respect of Part 1(a)(i) of the Project, those listed in Section A of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b)  
in respect of Part 1(a)(ii) of the Project, those listed in Section B of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
in respect of Part 2(a) of the Project, those listed in Section C of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Sichuan” means the Borrower’s Province of Sichuan, and any successor thereto. 
 
27. 
“Sichuan Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Sichuan of even date herewith relating to implementation of Part 1 of the Project, 
as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Sichuan Project Agreement. 
 
28. 
“Social Assessment” and the acronym “SA” mean the social assessment to be 
carried out by Sichuan or Gansu for a Sub-project pursuant to the Environmental 
and Social Screening and Assessment Framework setting forth, inter alia, an 
assessment of the needs and interests of different stakeholders, including 
Displaced Persons and Ethnic Minorities, that may be affected by the Sub-project 
based on consultation and informed participation, recommendations for 
mitigation of adverse impacts and enhancement of positive impacts based on 
such assessment, and the guidelines for the preparation and adoption of an Ethnic 
Minority Community Plan, and a Resettlement Action Plan, including 
arrangements for  monitoring of such Plans during Sub-project implementation.  
 
29. 
“Sub-project” means a Sub-project to be prepared by Sichuan Province or by 
Gansu Province under Part 1(a) or Part 2(a) of the Project, respectively, in 
accordance with the criteria, procedures and conditions set out in Section I.D of 
the Schedule to the Sichuan Project Agreement or the Gansu Project Agreement 
and to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
30. 
“Wenchuan Earthquake” means the earthquake that struck Wenchuan in the 
Sichuan Province of the Borrower on May 12, 2008.  
 
24
Section II.  Modification to the General Conditions 
 
The modification to the General Conditions is as follows:   
 
1. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
