CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7737-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Professional Education Quality Project) 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 1, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 1, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy seven million eight hundred 
twenty two thousand United States Dollars ($77,822,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the DGHE in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the 
Borrower shall have adopted the Project Management Manual acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
3
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
45799  DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta 
 
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
4
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Chris Hoban 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen quality assurance policies governing 
the  education of  health professionals in Indonesia through: (i) rationalizing and assuring 
competency focused accreditation of public and private health professional training 
institutions; (ii) developing national competency standards and testing procedures for 
certification and licensing of health professionals; and (iii) building institutional capacity 
to employ results based grants for encouraging use of accreditation and certification 
standards in the development of medical school quality. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Strengthening Policies and Procedures for School Accreditation. 
 
1.1 
Development of Strategic Framework, Policies and Procedures for 
Accreditation of Health Higher Education Institutions by supporting DGHE 
in: 
(a) building consensus among key stakeholders; (b) developing an 
accreditation master plan in alignment with international standards; (c) 
developing, establishing and supporting operation and management for an 
independent national accreditation agency (NAA); and (d) harmonizing 
regulations and policies of DGHE on accreditation. 
 
1.2 
Development of Standards of Health Education Programs and Standards of 
Competency by: (a) supporting DGHE in:  (i) developing competence and 
education standards for nursing and midwifery; (ii)  harmonizing standards of 
competence for doctors, dentists, nurses, and midwives; (iii) establishing a 
certification system for clinical instructors; (iv) developing guidelines for clinical 
instructor training; (v) establishing standards for teaching hospitals and other 
clinical training sites; and (vi) supporting a national medical education research 
and development function among Associations of Health Higher Education 
Institutions; and (b) (i) supporting Associations of Health Higher Education 
Institutions in applying the established standards of competency among 
members; and (ii) supporting AIPKI (one of the Associations of Health Higher 
Education Institutions) in managing Research Programs for individuals and/or 
groups on health education and standards of competency. 
 
1.3 
Development of Accreditation Instruments by supporting BAN-PT and NAA 
(following its establishment) to develop, pilot and disseminate accreditation 
instruments for medical, dental, nursing and midwifery education through a 
stakeholder participatory process.  
 
1.4 
Development of a Pool of Assessors by supporting BAN-PT and NAA 
(following its establishment) in: (a) the identification and development of a 
6
recruitment system for assessors in BAN-PT and NAA for  accreditation; (b) 
establishing a basic training program for selected assessors; and (c) conducting 
regular refresher training for assessors.  
 
1.5 
Establishment of an Accountability System for Accreditation of Health 
Higher Education Institutions by supporting DGHE to develop a directory of 
accreditation status of Health Higher Education Institutions and to publicize the 
directory through the website of the accreditation agency and other mass media.  
 
1.6 
Improving Data Management to Support the Accreditation System through:  
(a) supporting DGHE to develop a system to harmonize and streamline data 
collection from Health Higher Education Institutions and the NAA; and (b) 
supporting DGHE to provide capacity building to Health Higher Education 
Institutions for information management and conducting self evaluation for 
continuous quality improvement.  
 
Part 2. Certification of Graduates Using National Competency-based Examination.
2.1 
Establishing an Independent National Agency for Competence Examination 
of Health Professionals through supporting DGHE in: (a) developing the 
concept for, establishing and supporting the operation and management of an 
independent examination body (NACE HealthPro) to cover medical, dental, 
nursing, and midwifery graduate examinations; and (b) supporting NACE 
HealthPro in managing Research Programs for Health Higher Education 
Institutions and/or individuals therein to conduct policy studies on evaluation. 
 
2.2 
Improving Methodology and Management of the National Competence 
Examination through supporting NACE HealthPro (following its establishment) 
in developing a computer-based examination system and an objective structured 
clinical examination system for medical, dental, nursing and midwifery 
examinations, and introducing and operating such systems in approximately 
twelve (12) pilot centers at selected Health Higher Education Institutions. 
 
2.3 
Developing an Item Banking Network System to support the National 
Competence Examination through support for the NACE HealthPro (following 
its establishment) in developing, establishing and providing training to Health 
Higher Education Institutions and workshops on the use of an information 
technology-based item bank networking system.  
 
Part 3. Results-based Financial Assistance Package for Medical Schools. Providing 
FAPs to support implementation of competency-based curriculum, teacher and 
staff training, improvement of learning facilities, data management capacity, 
student scholarship and Research Programs for Participating Medical Schools 
under: (a) Scheme A for leading Participating Medical Schools; (b) Scheme B for 
7
weak capacity and new Participating Medical Schools; and (c) Scheme C for 
moderate capacity Participating Medical Schools. 
 
Part 4. Project Management.  Provision of technical advisory services and training, and 
other material support to DGHE to support the management of the Project. 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project the Steering 
Committee, established within the DGHE with a mandate, composition 
(including representatives of BAPPENAS, MONE, MOH and MOF) and terms 
of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to provide strategic 
direction for the Project.   
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, the Technical 
Committee established with a mandate, composition and terms of reference 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, including representatives of the 
BAPPENAS, MONE, MOH, MOF, KKI, BAN-PT, Associations of Health 
Higher Education Institutions, and Professional Associations, to assist and advise 
the CPCU concerning technical implementation of the Project related to their 
professional competencies.   
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Director General of Higher Education (or any 
successor designation) of MONE shall act as the Project director, the Director of 
Academic Affairs (or any successor designation) of DGHE shall act as the 
Project Manager, and Head of Sub-Directorate of Curriculum and Study 
Programs (or any successor designation) of DGHE shall act as the Vice- Project 
manager.  The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, the 
central Project coordination unit (CPCU), established in the office of the 
Directorate of Academic Affairs of DGHE.  The CPCU shall establish a Project 
secretariat which shall be chaired by a full time executive secretary, supported by 
a person-in-charge assigned to each Part of the Project, supported by project 
management consultants and comprised of staff whose composition and terms of 
reference shall have agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure 
that:  (a)  BHE of DGHE, with the support of the CPCU, shall be responsible for 
establishing the guidelines for the FAP selection process and for overseeing 
implementation of the FAPs; and (b) each Participating Medical School shall 
establish, by no later than the date on which it enters into a FAP Agreement and 
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a PIU under the authority of 
the rector (or equivalent position) of the Participating Medical School, with a 
mandate, composition and terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank to implement the FAP received by such Participating Medical School. 
 
9
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each of the Steering Committee, Technical 
Committee, CPCU and each PIU is provided at all times with adequate funds 
and other resources, and supported by suitably qualified and experienced 
personnel in adequate numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the 
Project. 
 
B. 
Implementation Obligations 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
implement the Project in accordance with the Project Management 
Manual, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, giving details of 
guidelines and procedures  for the implementation, supervision, and 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including: (i) institutional 
arrangements; (ii) fiduciary requirements for FAPs; (iii) criteria and time 
schedules for development of work plans for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; 
(iv) process budget documents (DIPA); (v) reporting, and monitoring and 
evaluation, requirements, and financial management and audit 
procedures as set forth in Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;   
(vi) procurement procedures as set forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement as well as standard procurement documentation; (vii) the 
Better Governance Action Plan; and (viii) eligibility and selection 
criteria, implementation arrangements and terms and conditions for 
agreements for Research Programs under Part 1.2(b)(ii) and Part 2.1(b) 
of the Program; 
(b) 
implement Part 3 of the Project in accordance with the FAP Manual, 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, giving details of guidelines 
and procedures  for the eligibility and selection criteria, implementation 
arrangements,  supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of the FAPs, 
in accordance with Attachment 2 to this Schedule 2, and where FAPs 
will support Research Programs, the eligibility and selection criteria, 
implementation arrangement and terms and conditions for agreements for 
such Research Programs; and 
(c) 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision of either of the Project Management 
Manual or the FAP Manual. 
2. 
For the purposes of establishing and providing support to NAA under Part 1.1 of 
the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:  
 
10 
 
(a) 
NAA is established as an independent entity with charter documents, 
staffing plan and operational procedures agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower shall: (i) enter into the NAA Memorandum of Agreement, 
on terms and conditions agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, with 
NAA setting out  the activities that NAA will undertake under the Project 
and the requirement for the use of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the Project Management Manual and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, including the provisions of Attachment 1 to this 
Schedule 2; and (ii) the Borrower shall not make any proceeds of the 
Loan available to NAA and shall not permit NAA to commence 
activities under Part 1.1 of the Project until the Borrower and NAA have 
entered into such memorandum of agreement. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of supporting Associations of Health Higher Education 
Institutions under Part 1.2(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into an 
Association Memorandum of Agreement, on terms and conditions agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank, with each Association of Health Higher 
Education Institutions setting out the activities that such institutions will 
undertake under the Project and the requirements for the use of the proceeds of 
the Loan in accordance with the Project Management Manual and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, including the provisions of Attachment 1 to this Schedule 
2; and (ii) the Borrower shall not make any proceeds of the Loan available to any 
Association of Health Higher Education Institutions and shall not permit any 
such association to commence activities under Part 1.2(b) of the Project until the 
Borrower and such association have entered into such memorandum of 
agreement. 
 
4. 
For the purposes of supporting AIPKI, one of the Associations of Education 
Institutions, to conduct Research Programs under Part 1.2(b)(ii) of the Project, 
and provided that AIPKI has entered into an Association Memorandum of 
Agreement, (i) AIPKI shall enter into a Research Program Agreement with each  
Researcher setting out the activities that such Researcher will undertake under 
the Project and the requirements for the use of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the Project Management Manual and the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines, including the provisions of Attachment 1 to this Schedule 2; and (ii) 
the Borrower shall not make any proceeds of the Loan available to AIPKI for the 
purpose of a Research Program until AIPKI shall have entered into a Research 
Program Agreement with the respective Researcher for such Research Program. 
 
5. 
For the purposes of establishing and providing support to NACE HealthPro under 
Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:  
 
11 
 
(a) 
NACE HealthPro is established as an independent entity with charter 
documents, staffing plan and operational procedures agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank;  
 
(b) 
the Borrower shall: (i)  enter into the NACE HealthPro Memorandum of 
Agreement, on terms and conditions agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank, with NACE HealthPro setting out the activities that NACE 
HealthPro will undertake under the Project and the requirements for the 
use of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the Project 
Management Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, including the 
provisions of Attachment 1 to this Schedule 2; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
not make any proceeds of the Loan available to NACE HealthPro and 
shall not permit NACE HealthPro to commence activities under Part 2 of 
the Project until the Borrower and NACE HealthPro have entered into 
such memorandum of agreement; and 
 
(c) 
for the purposes of supporting NACE HealthPro to undertake Research 
Programs under Part 2.1(b) of the Project, and provided that NACE 
HealthPro has entered into the NACE HealthPro Memorandum of 
Agreement, NACE HealthPro  shall enter into a Research Program 
Agreement with each Researcher setting out the activities that such 
Researcher will undertake under the Project and the requirements for the 
use of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the Project 
Management Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, including the 
provisions of Attachment 1 to this Schedule 2; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
not make any proceeds of the Loan available to NACE HealthPro for the 
purpose of a Research Program until NACE HealthPro shall have entered 
into a Research Program Agreement with the respective Researcher for 
such Research Program. 
 
6. 
For purposes of providing FAPs to Participating Medical Schools under Part 3 of 
the Project, the Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the FAP 
Manual and the terms and conditions for FAPs set out in Attachment 2 to this 
Schedule 2. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  
12 
 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and submit to the Bank for review and comment, 
by no later than June 30, 2012 (or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower 
may otherwise agree in writing), a draft mid-term review incorporating the 
results of each Project Report; and (b) by no later than September 30, 2012 (or 
such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree), submit to the 
Bank a final mid-term review having taken into account the comments provided 
by the Bank on mid-term review. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services.
All civil works, goods and non-consulting 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred 
to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this 
Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
13 
 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services.
The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consulting services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the modifications set forth in 
Attachment 3 to this Annex 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in    
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(c) Single Source Selection 
14 
 
(d) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
15 
 
Category* 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(Inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Training 
and 
workshops, 
incremental operating costs, research 
expenditures consultants services and 
goods under Part 1 of the Project 
 
6,584,000 
100% 
(2) 
Training 
and 
workshops, 
incremental operating costs, research 
expenditures, consultants services and 
goods under Part 2 of the Project 
 
12,099,000 
100% 
(3)      FAPs for Sub-projects under Part 
3 of the Project 
 
55,000,000 
100% 
(4) 
Training 
and 
workshops, 
incremental operating costs, consultants 
services and goods under Part 4 of the 
Project 
 
4,139,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
77,822,000 
* For the purposes of this table: (i) “training and workshops” means the reasonable costs 
of expenses incurred in carrying out training and workshops for the Project, including 
purchase, reproduction and publication of materials, rental of facilities, course fees, and 
travel and subsistence of trainees; (ii) “incremental operating costs” means the reasonable 
costs of incremental expenses incurred in the carrying out of the Project (which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project), including fees for 
assessors to conduct accreditation under Part 1.4 of the Project, fees for  proposal 
reviewer and module development under FAPs, communications costs, travel allowance 
and operational cost for the CPCU, but in all cases excluding salaries of civil servants of 
the Borrower; and (iii) “research expenditures” means the reasonable expenditures 
incurred in the conduct of a Research Program by a Researcher pursuant to a Research 
Program Agreement. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
16 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or   
 
(c) 
under Category 3 until the Borrower has adopted the FAP Manual 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank and has entered into at least one 
FAP Agreement with at least one (1) Participating Medical School. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
17 
 
Attachment 1 to Schedule 2 
 
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Agreements Providing for the Use of Proceeds 
of the Loan by Institutions, Associations and Individuals (other than FAPs) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the NAA Memorandum of Agreement, each 
Association Memorandum of Agreement, the NACE HealthPro Memorandum of 
Agreement and each Research Program Agreement shall contain the following terms and 
conditions:   
 
(a) Positive List:  (i) details of eligible activities and eligible expenditures in 
compliance with this Agreement; (ii) details of agreed disbursement 
schedules; (iii) if any procurement will be undertaken by the recipient of 
Loan proceeds there under, procurement procedures consistent with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iv) provisions for 
maintaining a financial system and preparing financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Borrower and the  Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the proceeds of the Loan and to have 
such financial statements audited in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank and to furnish the statements to the 
Borrower and the Bank; (v) the right of the Borrower and the Bank to inspect 
the activities undertaken pursuant to such agreement, its operations and any 
documents related thereto; (vi) an undertaking on the part of the recipient of 
Loan proceeds pursuant to such agreement to comply with the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; (vii) the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate 
the right of the recipient of Loan proceeds pursuant to such agreement to use 
such proceeds upon the recipient thereof’s failure to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and  (viii) the undertaking of the recipient 
of proceeds of the Loan to implement all activities there under in accordance 
with the Project Management Manual or the FAP Manual (for Research 
Programs under Part 3 of the Project), as applicable. 
 
(b) Negative List:  No proceeds of the Loan shall be used to finance expenditures 
involving or likely to involve: (i) the manufacture or use of environmentally 
hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides and herbicides), arms or 
drugs; (ii) the production, processing, handling, storage or sale of tobacco or 
products containing tobacco; (iii) activities within a nature reserve or any 
other area designated by the Borrower for the management and/or the 
protection of biodiversity, except with the prior written approval of the 
Borrower’s agency responsible for the management and/or protection of such 
area; (iv) over-exploitation of water resources and/or contamination of 
domestic water supplies; or (v) the provision of goods, works or services, 
directly or through intermediaries, by suppliers or contractors, as the case 
may be, who have been declared ineligible to participate in the procurement 
18 
 
of any Bank-financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time, as a result of a decision of the Bank’s Sanctions Committee, but only to 
the extent that such sanction remains valid and applicable, according to the 
terms of the decision. 
 
No proceeds of the Loan shall be made available to finance the salaries of 
civil servants of the Borrower. 
19 
 
Attachment 2 to Schedule 2 
 
Terms and Conditions Applicable to FAPs.
1. 
FAP Manual. For purposes of providing FAPs to Participating Medical Schools 
for Sub-projects under Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
make FAPs available to support implementation of competency-based 
curriculum, teacher and staff training, improvement of learning facilities,  
data management capacity, student scholarship and Research Programs;  
 
(b) 
ensure that each FAP is implemented in accordance with the FAP 
Manual as follows giving details of guidelines and procedures for the 
implementation, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of Sub-
projects, including: (i) institutional arrangements; (ii) eligibility and 
selection criteria for Scheme A FAPs, Scheme B FAPs and Scheme C 
FAPs, terms and conditions for the applicable type of FAP Agreements, 
and implementation obligations for the applicable type of FAPs; (iii) 
eligibility and selection criteria for Research Programs under Scheme 
FAPs; (iv) criteria and time schedules for development of Annual Work 
Plans; (v) reporting, and monitoring and evaluation, requirements, and 
financial management and audit procedures as set forth in Section II of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (vi) procurement procedures as set forth in 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as well as standard 
procurement documentation; and (vii) details of the Better Governance 
Action Plan; and 
 
(c) 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend or 
waive any provision of the FAP Manual. 
 
2. 
Implementation Obligations for FAPs. The Borrower shall ensure that FAPs 
are provided to Participating Medical Schools in compliance with the following 
provisions: 
 
(a) 
Schemes.  There shall be three (3) FAP schemes and BHE shall make 
FAPs available for Sub-projects under each scheme as follows: 
 
(i) 
(A)   Scheme A shall be made available to such number of 
leading medical schools (meeting the requirements 
specified in the FAP Manual) as may be agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank (expected to be 10); provided, 
however, that in order to become a Participating Medical 
School, each such leading medical school shall agree to 
assist a Participating Medical School that is a weak 
medical school or new medical school under Scheme B 
20 
 
(such assistance to be funded out of the FAP provided to 
such Scheme B Participating Medical School).    
 
(B)  
The CPCU shall submit a consolidated list of Scheme A 
Medical Schools to the Bank for no objection prior to the 
commencement of any Scheme A FAP.   
 
(C)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise 
agree, 
each 
Scheme 
A 
FAP 
shall not exceed 
US$1,000,000 equivalent and shall cover activities over a 
period of no more than three (3) years; provided that no 
FAP may extend beyond the Closing Date.    
 
(D)   The terms and conditions for the use by each Scheme A 
Participating Medical School of its respective Scheme A 
FAP, including the mechanism for selecting the partner 
Scheme B Participating Medical School, shall be set out 
in its respective FAP Agreement on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank in accordance 
with this Agreement.  In the event that a Scheme A FAP 
includes a Research Program, then such Scheme A FAP 
shall also include eligibility and selection criteria, 
implementation arrangement and terms and conditions for 
Research Program Agreements meeting the requirements 
of Attachment 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
(A)   Scheme B shall be made available to such number of 
weak capacity medical schools (as defined in the FAP 
Manual) as may be agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank (expected to be 13) and such number of new 
medical schools (as defined in the FAP Manual) as may 
be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank (expected 
to be 7), in each case on the basis of a competitive 
selection procedure specified in the FAP Manual and this 
Annex.  In order to become a Participating Medical 
School, each such weak or new medical school shall 
agree to use a portion of its FAP to work with a 
Participating Medical School that is a leading medical 
school under Scheme A to be selected on the basis of 
consultation undertaken in accordance with the FAP 
Manual.    
 
(B)  
The CPCU shall submit a consolidated list of Scheme B 
Medical Schools to the Bank for no objection prior to the 
commencement of any Scheme B FAP.   
21 
 
(C)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise 
agree, 
each 
Scheme 
B 
FAP 
shall 
not 
exceed 
US$1,500,000 equivalent and shall cover activities over a 
period of no more than three (3) years; provided that no 
FAP may extend beyond the Closing Date.    
 
(D)   The terms and conditions for the use by each Scheme B 
Participating Medical School of its respective Scheme B 
FAP, including the mechanism for selecting the partner 
Scheme A Participating Medical School, shall be set out 
in its respective FAP Agreement, in each case on terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank 
in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
(A)  
Scheme C shall be made available to such number of 
moderate capacity medical schools (as defined in the FAP 
Manual) as may be agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank (expected to be 10), in each case on the basis of a 
competitive selection procedure specified in the FAP 
Manual and this Annex.   
 
(B)  
The CPCU shall submit a consolidated list of Scheme C 
Medical Schools to the Bank for no objection prior to the 
commencement of any Scheme C FAP.   
 
(C)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise 
agree, 
each 
Scheme 
C 
FAP 
shall 
not 
exceed 
US$1,500,000 equivalent and shall cover activities over a 
period of no more than three (3) years; provided that no 
FAP may extend beyond the Closing Date.   
 
(D)   The terms and conditions for the use by each Scheme C 
Participating Medical School of its respective Scheme C 
FAP shall be set out in its respective FAP Agreement, in 
each case on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank in accordance with this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Selection Process. DGHE shall ensure that FAPs shall only be provided 
to medical schools that have met the eligibility and selection criteria and 
have proposed Sub-projects meeting the requirements set out in the FAP 
Manual and have been designated as Participating Medical Schools by 
DGHE following the procedure for call for proposals, review of 
proposals and (in the case of Scheme B and Scheme C) eligibility of 
proposing medical schools, as set out in the FAP Manual. 
22 
 
(c) 
FAP Agreements.
(i)  DGHE shall enter into a FAP Agreement, on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, with each 
Participating Medical School for its respective FAP prior to providing 
any Loan proceeds to the Participating Medical School. Each FAP 
Agreement shall set out: (A) details of eligible activities and eligible 
expenditures in compliance with this Agreement; (B) details of agreed 
disbursement schedules; (C) procurement procedures consistent with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (D) provisions 
for maintaining a financial system and preparing financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Borrower and the  Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project and to 
have such financial statements audited in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank and to furnish the 
statements to the Borrower and the Bank; (E) the right of the Borrower 
and the Bank to inspect the Sub-project, its operations and any 
documents related thereto; (F) an undertaking on the part of the 
Participating Medical School comply with the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; (G) the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Participating Medical School  to use the proceeds of the FAP 
upon the Participating Medical School’s failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the FAP Agreement; (H) in the case of Scheme A 
FAPs which propose Research Programs, the eligibility and selection 
criteria, implementation arrangement and terms and conditions for 
Research Program Agreements meeting the requirements of Attachment 
1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (I) the undertaking of the 
Participating Medical School to implement the FAP in accordance with 
the FAP Manual. 
 
(ii) 
DGHE shall ensure that no proceeds of the Loan shall be used to 
finance any FAP unless a FAP Agreement has been entered into and 
remains in force and effect between the Borrower and the Participating 
Medical School undertaking such FAP on the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Disbursement.  DGHE shall allocate FAPs through results-based 
allocation following review of performance by each Participating 
Medical School under its FAP Agreement, provided; however that FAPs 
will only be disbursed against eligible expenditures for civil works, 
goods, services, training and workshops, incremental operating costs 
and/or research expenditures as set out in the FAP Manual.   
 
(e) 
No FAP shall be made available to finance expenditures involving or 
likely to involve: (i) the manufacture or use of environmentally 
hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides and herbicides), arms or 
23 
 
drugs; (ii) the production, processing, handling, storage or sale of 
tobacco or products containing tobacco; (iii) activities within a nature 
reserve or any other area designated by the Borrower for the 
management and/or the protection of biodiversity, except with the prior 
written approval of the Borrower’s agency responsible for the 
management and/or protection of such area; (iv) over-exploitation of 
water resources and/or contamination of domestic water supplies; or (v) 
the provision of goods, works or services, directly or through 
intermediaries, by suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, who have 
been declared ineligible to participate in the procurement of any Bank-
financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of time, as a 
result of a decision of the Bank’s Sanctions Committee, but only to the 
extent that such sanction remains valid and applicable, according to the 
terms of the decision. 
 
No FAP shall be made available to finance the salaries of civil servants 
of the Borrower. 
 
(f) 
Procurement Planning. The CPCU shall consolidate the procurement 
plans for all Participating Medical Schools and shall submit them to the 
Bank for no objection prior to the commencement of activities under 
each such procurement plan.  The CPCU shall also consolidate proposed 
changes/revisions to any procurement plan and submit such proposed 
changes to the Bank for no objection prior to the commencement of 
activities that are the subject of the proposed changes/revisions. 
24 
 
Attachment 3 to Schedule 2 
 
Clarifications Relating to National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
1. 
General
The procedures to be followed for NCB shall be those set forth in Presidential 
Decree No. 80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the clarifications and 
modifications described in the following paragraphs required for compliance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Guidelines). 
 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a 
condition for participation in the bidding process. 
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders: (i) 
shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process; 
and (ii) shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, which shall 
be verified through post-qualification. 
 
3. 
Pre-qualification
(a) 
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works.  
Normally, post-qualification shall be used.  Pre-qualification shall be 
required only for large or complex works with the prior ‘no objection’ of 
the Bank.  When pre-qualification shall be required: 
 
(b) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-
qualification, and  
 
(b) 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one 
(1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) 
days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification 
applications. 
 
4. 
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to 
form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods 
as a condition of award of the contract. 
 
25 
 
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and 
local regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures 
to a class of contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to 
procurement procedures under the Credit or the Loan. 
 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to 
purchase bidding documents up to twenty-four (24) hours prior the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit 
responsible for procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of 
the estimated value of the contract. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration 
process is required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given a reasonable opportunity for registering. 
 
7. 
Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or 
bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and if bids are invited in two (2) envelopes, both 
envelopes (technical and price) shall be opened at the same time. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the 
lowest evaluated bidder. 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
26 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the 
owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
27 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
March 1, 2019 
2.17 
September 1, 2019 
2.22 
March 1, 2020 
2.28 
September 1, 2020 
2.34 
March 1,  2021 
2.40 
September 1, 2021 
2.46 
March 1, 2022 
2.52 
September 1, 2022 
2.58 
March 1, 2023 
2.64 
September 1, 2023 
2.71 
March 1, 2024 
2.78 
September 1, 2024 
2.85 
March 1, 2025 
2.92 
September 1, 2025 
2.99 
March 1, 2026 
3.07 
September 1, 2026 
3.14 
March 1, 2027 
3.22 
September 1, 2027 
3.30 
March 1, 2028 
3.38 
September 1, 2028 
3.47 
March 1, 2029 
3.56 
September 1, 2029 
3.65 
March 1, 2030 
3.74 
September 1, 2030 
3.83 
March 1, 2031 
3.93 
September 1, 2031 
4.02 
March 1, 2032 
4.12 
28 
 
September 1, 2032 
4.23 
March 1, 2033 
4.33 
September 1, 2033 
4.44 
March 1, 2034 
4.71 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
29 
 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
30 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“AIPKI” means the Association of Indonesian Medical Schools, or any successor 
thereto. 
2. 
 “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Associations of Health Higher Education Institutions” means any one of the 
following the associations of health-related professional institutions in Indonesia: 
AIPKI; the Association of Indonesian Dental Schools (AFDOKGI); the 
Association of Indonesian Midwifery Schools (AIPKIND); the Association of 
Indonesian Nursing Schools (AIPNI); and the Association of Teaching Hospitals 
of Indonesia (ARSPI); and any successor to each thereof; and “Associations of 
Health Higher Education Institutions” means more than one Association of 
Health Higher Education Institutions. 
4. 
“Association Memorandum of Agreement” means each memorandum of 
agreement or understanding to be entered into by the Borrower with an 
Association of Health Higher Education Institutions for the purposes of Part 
1.2(b) of the Project, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the 
Bank in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. 
5. 
“BAN-PT” means Badan Akreditasi Nasional – Perguruan Tinggi, the currently 
existing National Accreditation Agency for Higher Education of the Borrower, 
and any successor thereto. 
6. 
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto.  
7. 
“Better Governance Action Plan” means a stand-alone chapter of the Project 
Management Manual exclusively dedicated to the Borrower’s anti-corruption 
action plan, giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies 
designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its forms under the 
Project, including enhanced information disclosure provisions, civil society 
oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with the risks associated with 
collusion, forgery and fraud, a complaint handling mechanism, and an 
appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies. 
8. 
“BHE” means the Board of Higher Education under DGHE, and any successor 
thereto. 
31 
 
9. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
10. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
11. 
“CPCU” means the central project coordination unit in the DGHE established by 
Letter (Surat Keputusan) Nos.62061 and 62062, dated August 21, 2009 and 
operating in accordance with to paragraph 3 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
 “DGHE” means the Directorate General of Higher Education of MONE, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“FAP” means each Financial Assistance Package to be provided to a 
Participating Medical School for a Sub-project for minor civil works, training 
and workshops, incremental operating costs, research expenditures consultants 
services and goods, upon completion of preparation and appraisal of said Sub-
project, designation of the Participating Medical School in full compliance with 
the provisions of the Project Management Manual, the FAP Manual and 
Attachment 2 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and execution by the Borrower 
and the Participating Medical School of a FAP Agreement on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; and “FAPs” means more 
than one FAP. 
 
14. 
“FAP Agreement” means an agreement entered into between the Borrower and a 
Participating Medical School for the purposes of a FAP, and in each case meeting 
the requirements set out in paragraph 2(c) of Attachment 2 to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, in each case on terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Bank; and “FAP Agreements” means more than one FAP Agreement. 
 
15. 
“FAP Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, for 
FAPs under Part 3 of the Project meeting the requirements of paragraph 1(b) of 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and paragraph 1 of Attachment 2 to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such manual may be revised from time to time 
with the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.  
 
16. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
17. 
“Health Higher Education Institution” means an institution providing medical, 
nursing, dentistry and/or midwifery higher education under the regulation of 
32 
 
MONE; and “Health Higher Education Institutions” means more than one Health 
Higher Education Institution. 
 
18. 
“KKI” means the Indonesian Medical Council (IMC/KKI), a mandatory council 
established by law, and any successor thereto. 
 
19. 
 “MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
20. 
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
21. 
 “MONE” means the Ministry of National Education of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
22. 
“NAA” means the national accreditation agency, or as it may otherwise be 
named upon its establishment, to be established to provide accreditation of 
Health Higher Education Institutions under Part 1.1 of the Project, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“NAA Memorandum of Agreement” means the memorandum of agreement or 
understanding to be entered into between the Borrower and NAA for the 
purposes of Part 1 of the Project in accordance with paragraph 2(b) of Section I.B 
of of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
 
24. 
“NACE HealthPro” means the National Agency for Competency Examination of 
Health Professionals, or as it may otherwise be named upon its establishment, to 
be established as an independent examination body to cover medical, dental, 
nursing, and midwifery graduate examinations under Part 2.1 of the Project. 
 
25. 
“NACE HealthPro Memorandum of Agreement” means the memorandum of 
agreement or understanding to be entered into between the Borrower and NACE 
HealthPro for the purposes of Part 2.1(b) of the Project in accordance with 
paragraph 5(b) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
26. 
“Participating Medical School” means each medical school which participates in 
a FAP pursuant to a FAP Agreement. 
 
27. 
“PIU” means each project implementation unit to be established by each 
Participating Medical School pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section I.A of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement prior to such Participating Medical School entering into a 
FAP Agreement or receiving a FAP, and “PIUs” means more than one PIU. 
 
33 
 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
29. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 30, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
30. 
“Professional Association” means any one of the Indonesia Midwives 
Association (IBI), the Indonesia Medical Association (IDI), the Indonesia Nurses 
Association (PPNI), and the Indonesia Dentists Association (PDGI), and any 
successor to each thereof; and “Professional Associations” means more than one 
Professional Association. 
 
31. 
“Project Management Manual” means the Project Management Manual meeting 
the requirements of paragraph 1(a) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, as such manual may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
32. 
“Research Program” means each program to support research by an individual or 
an institution in support of the Project  under: (a) Part 1.2(b)(ii) of the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 4 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (b) 
Part 2.1(b) of the Project in accordance with paragraph 5(c) of Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; or (c) Part 3 of the Project in accordance with 
paragraph 1(b) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in each case 
which is the subject of a Research Program Agreement on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank t. 
 
33. 
“Research Program Agreement” means each agreement under: (a) Part 1.2(b)(ii) 
of the Project in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; (b) Part 2.1(b) of the Project in accordance with paragraph 5(c) 
of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; or (c) Part 3 of the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 1(b) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
in each case on terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
34. 
“Researcher” means an individual or an institution which is eligible to receive 
proceeds of the Loan for a Research Program and has entered into a Research 
Program Agreement in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
35. 
“Scheme A” means ” the scheme for providing FAPs to leading Participating 
Medical Schools in accordance with the provisions of the FAP Manual and 
Attachment 2 to Schedule 2. 
 
34 
 
36. 
“Scheme B” means the scheme for providing FAPs to weak capacity and new 
Participating Medical School in accordance with the provisions of the FAP 
Manual and Attachment 2 to Schedule 2. 
 
37. 
“Scheme C” means the scheme for providing FAPs to moderate capacity 
Participating Medical Schools in accordance with the provisions of the FAP 
Manual and Attachment 2 to Schedule 2. 
 
38. 
“Steering Committee” means the committee established pursuant to Letter (Surat 
Keputusan) Nos. 62063, dated August 21, 2009, and operating as set out in 
paragraph 1 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
39. 
“Sub-project” means the activities for which the Borrower provides a FAP to a 
Participating Medical School for activities under Part 3 of the Project, and in 
each case meeting the requirements set out in Attachment 2 to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and “Sub-projects” means more than one Sub-project. 
 
40. 
“Technical Committee” means the committee established pursuant to Letter 
(Surat Keputusan) Nos. 62061 and 62062, dated August 21, 2009,  and operating 
as set out in paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any 
successor thereto 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:  
35 
 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows:
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”
