CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7676-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Hubei Yiba Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 31, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 31, 2009, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and  (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
3
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve passenger and freight flows in the 
Yichang-Badong corridor by construction of an expressway with enhanced 
environmental management practices. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
A. 
Yichang-Badong Expressway  
 
1. 
Construction of an expressway of about 173.6Km (“Yiba Expressway”) with a 
design speed of 80Km/hour connecting Yichang City and Badong County at the 
border of Hubei and Chongqing Municipality including: 
 
(a) 
construction of tunnels, bridges and viaducts;  
 
(b) 
construction of service areas, parking lots, toll plazas and buildings, 
seven (7) interchanges and about 35.4Km of interconnecting roads to 
improve integration with the local road network; 
 
(c) 
acquisition and installation of electrical and mechanical equipment;  
 
(d) 
carrying out supervision of the construction activities; and  
 
(e) 
carrying out land acquisition required for this part of the Project and 
resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the Project. 
 
B. 
Institutional Strengthening 
 
1. 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capacity of HPCD in expressway 
construction and management through, inter alia:  
 
(a) 
carrying out training on expressway construction and management, 
including design, safety, maintenance, finance and the environment;  
 
(b) 
preparation of guides to improve environmental monitoring and 
management;  
 
(c) 
carrying out: (i) a study on tunnel safety; (ii) research on Hubei’s 
comprehensive transport and logistics development plan; and (iii) a study 
on design approaches to reduce the risk of landslide and other geological 
disasters during construction and operations; and 
 
(d) 
provision of equipment for expressway management and environmental 
monitoring.  
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
On-lending Arrangements 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, 
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include the following:  
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.  
 
(ii) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of twenty seven (27) years, inclusive of a grace period of eight (8) years. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
A front-end fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Sections 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
6
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Works.
All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
7
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(c)  Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for works; and (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.  All other contracts 
shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
8
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Civil works for Eligible 
Activities under Part A 
of the Project  
147,291,000 
 
42% 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services, 
training and studies 
2,334,000 
100%  
(3) 
Front-end Fee 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000 
 
3. 
For the purpose of this Schedule, the term “Eligible Activities” means the  
activities related to: (a) the carrying out of subgrade and pavement works over a 
selected portion of the Yiba Expressway to be constructed under Part A of the 
Project; and (b) the erection and installation of certain electrical and mechanical 
systems over the length of the Yiba Expressway, including tolling, and 
monitoring and communication systems, all under contracts to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan as set out in this Agreement and the Procurement Plan. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
9
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2017  
 
through September 15, 2035 
 
2.63% 
On March 15, 2036 
2.69% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
10
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
11
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of Part A 
of the Project has experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income 
sources or means of  livelihood, whether or not such person must move to 
another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
person; and “Displaced Persons” means  collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated September 22, 2008 
and duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, and which Plan sets out the 
measures to address the adverse environmental impacts of the Project, including 
protection of natural habitats, biodiversity and cultural relics, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements in respect of the implementation of 
said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank. 
 
6. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual dated August 12, 2008, 
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for the purpose of implementing and 
monitoring the financial management aspects of the Project. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
8. 
“HERO” means the Hubei Expressway Resettlement Office established by 
HPCD for assisting in carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation activities under 
the Project. 
 
12
9. 
“HPCD” means the Hubei Provincial Communications Department of Hubei. 
 
10. 
“HYEMD” means the Hubei Yiba Expressway Management Division established 
under the Hubei Expressway Administration Bureau, to operate and maintain the 
Yiba Expressway to be constructed under Part A of the Project after it opens to 
traffic. 
 
11. 
“HPYECH” means the Hubei Provincial Yiba Expressway Construction 
Headquarters established by HPCD for managing the day to day activities related 
to the implementation of Part A of the Project. 
 
12. 
“Hubei” means the Province of Hubei of the Borrower or any successor thereto, 
and referred to also as the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated August 15, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Hubei. 
 
16. 
“Project Office” means the office established by HPCD for, inter alia, assisting in 
implementing Part B of the Project. 
 
17. 
“RAP” means, the resettlement action plan dated September 22, 2008 with 
respect to Part A of the Project (other than for the interconnecting roads referred 
to under Part A.1(b) of the Project), duly adopted by the Project Implementing 
Entity, and which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons 
on account of the execution of such Part of the Project, as well as reporting and 
monitoring arrangements  to ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may 
be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and such term 
includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to said Plan.  
 
18. 
“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework dated September 22, 2008 and 
duly adopted by the Project Implementing Entity for purposes of carrying out the 
construction of the interconnecting roads under Part A.1(b) of the Project and on 
the basis of which a specific resettlement action plan will be prepared, adopted 
and implemented by the Project Implementing Entity in connection with the 
construction of said interconnecting roads. 
13
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
