CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7577-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Orissa State Roads Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 27, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated January 27, 2009, between INDIA, acting by its  
President (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars 
($250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement, (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 -
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
- 3 -
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of 
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.  
 
5.02.  
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi 110 001 
India 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
ECOFAIRS 
 
953-31-66175  
91-11-23093422 
New Delhi  
 
FINE IN 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
- 4 -
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Dr. Alok Sheel 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  
 
 
 
/s/ N. Roberto Zagha 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to remove transport bottlenecks in targeted 
transport corridors of the State of Orissa for greater investment and economic and social 
development activities in the State of Orissa. 
 
The Project consists of the following components: 
 
A. 
Road Corridor Improvement
Widening, strengthening and selective realignment of about 461 km of existing 
roads in the State of Orissa to the double-lane standard, to be completed in two 
phases: (i) Phase I Roads, comprising about 204 km of total roads included in 
the Project; and (ii) Phase II Roads, comprising the remaining roads included in 
the Project; and implementation of ancillary social, health, resettlement and 
environmental measures. 
 
B. 
PPP Enabling, Sector Policy and Institutional Development and Implementation Support
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Government of the State of Orissa to attract, on 
Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis, private sector participation in financing 
and management of selected high-traffic roads.  
 
2. 
Modernization and institutional strengthening of the OWD, by, inter alia: (a) 
preparation of a modern road asset management system; (b) development and 
implementation of a strategy to modernize financial management system and 
record keeping, and introduction of e-procurement; (c) strengthening the OWD 
capacity in core business functions, including environment and social 
management, road safety, road asset management, and PPP transactions; (d) 
revision and update the PWD codes and manuals to improve contract 
management and procurement practices in OWD; and (e) training and capacity 
building of OWD staff.  
3. 
Strengthening the policy, institutional and legal framework of the State of Orissa 
road sector through, inter alia: (a) improving operation and management structure 
for managing the Core Road Network; (b) developing sustainable road 
maintenance financing options; (c) establishment of a State road development 
council to coordinate the various State road agencies; (d) preparation of a road 
master plan, including revision/update and implementation of the State road 
network classification system; (e) development of the road safety policy action 
plan; and (f) development of axle load control policy and strategy. 
 
4. 
 Implementation and monitoring of the Project. 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with 
Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of 
India. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take all necessary 
steps to ensure that all Project activities are implemented in accordance with the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.   
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports 
The Borrower, together with the Project Implementing Entity, shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each such report shall cover the period of each 
Fiscal Year quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(a) of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
or shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each Fiscal Year quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the 
Borrower, commencing with the Fiscal Year in which the first withdrawal under 
- 7 -
the Project was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Borrower, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth 
in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(1)  Civil works, goods, consultants’ 
services, Training, R&R Assistance, 
and Incremental Operating Costs 
246,375,000 
80% 
(2)   Refund of the Project Preparation 
Advance 
3,000,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(a) of the 
General Conditions 
(3)  Front End Fee 
625,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(c) of the 
General Conditions 
- 8 -
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(4)   Premia for Interest Rate Cap and 
Interest Rate Collar 
-0- 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of 
this Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL 
250,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2008, for Eligible 
Expenditures under Category (1). 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
- 9 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2014  
 
through June 15, 2037 
 
2.08% 
On December 15, 2037 
2.24% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
- 10 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 11 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
 “Core Road Network” means the State of Orissa state highways and major 
district roads that have been designated as such by the Government of the State 
of Orissa, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
5. 
“EMPs” means the corridor specific environmental management plans related to 
Phase I Roads, adopted by the OWD on August 30, 2007, and corridor specific 
environmental management plans related to Phase II Roads to be adopted by 
OWD, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the environmental management, 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken by the OWD 
during the Project, as such plans may be revised from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“EMC” means the environmental management cell established within the PMU 
to manage and coordinate environmental aspects of road management, including 
project planning and preparation, supervision, monitoring, evaluation, reporting, 
documentation, training, and overall coordination with other State agencies. 
 
7. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the financial management manual 
adopted by the OWD on December 11, 2008, satisfactory to the Bank, setting 
forth the overall Project financial management arrangements in respect of Project 
flow of funds, accounting policies and procedures, chart of accounts, financial 
and accounting procedures, books of accounts, financial reporting, and internal 
controls, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of 
the Bank.  
 
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s and Project Implementing Entity’s fiscal 
year, beginning on April 1 of any calendar year and ending on March 31 of the 
following calendar year. 
 
- 12 -
9. 
 “GAAP” means the Governance and Accountability Action Plan, adopted by the 
Government of Orissa on September 26, 2008, setting forth the key actions to be 
undertaken by the OWD, to strengthen governance, transparency, and 
accountability under the Project, as such plan may be revised from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
11. 
“HIV/AIDS Action Plans” means the plans included in the RAPs, setting forth 
the key policy and governmental actions required to address HIV/AIDS issues 
under the Project, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank.  
 
12. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by 
the OWD on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including salaries of non-civil service positions and consultancy costs, 
dissemination of Project related information, office rent and utilities, office and 
equipment insurance, maintenance and repair, vehicle maintenance and repair, 
travel, security, communication, bank charges, and other costs directly associated 
with the Project. 
 
13. 
“ISAP” means the Institutional Strengthening Action Plan, adopted by 
Government of Orissa on June 9, 2008, setting forth the key policy and 
governmental actions required to modernize the OWD, and to improve the 
planning and financing framework for the road sector, as such plan may be 
revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.  
 
14. 
 “ISAP Steering Committee” means the committee established by Government of 
Orissa on December 11, 2008, chaired by the Development Commissioner, and 
whose members include representatives of the concerned agencies and 
departments, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
15. 
“OWD” means the Works Department of the Government of Orissa, or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
16. 
“Phase I Roads” and “Phase II Roads” mean the roads referred to under 
Component A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
17. 
 “PMU” means the project management unit established within the OWD to assist 
in Project implementation, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
- 13 -
18. 
 “PPP Cell” means the unit within the PMU responsible for management of PPP 
roads under Component B.1 of the Project, or any successor or successors 
thereto. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated July 9, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as 
such plan shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraphs. 
 
21. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the State of Orissa. 
 
22. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance granted by 
the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Bank on March 8, 2006, and on behalf of the Borrower on March 30, 2006. 
 
23. 
“RAPs” means the Resettlement Action Plans for Phase I Roads adopted by the 
OWD on November 6, 2007, and the Resettlement Action Plans for Phase II 
Roads to be adopted by the OWD, which include the HIV/AIDS Plans, and are 
satisfactory to the Bank, and which set forth resettlement, social, land 
acquisition, and tribal communities rehabilitation and assistance actions to be 
undertaken by the OWD under the Project, as such plans may be revised from 
time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
24. 
“R&R Assistance” means resettlement and rehabilitation assistance provided by 
the OWD to eligible recipients in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
forth in the R&R Framework and the RAPs.  
 
25. 
“R&R Framework” means the resettlement and rehabilitation policies and 
procedures adopted by the Government of the State of Orissa on March 1, 2007, 
addressing adverse temporary or permanent social impacts resulting, or likely to 
result, from the carrying out of the Project, and based on the Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation Policy adopted by the Government of Orissa in April 2006, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
26. 
“SMC” means the social management cell established within the PMU to manage 
and coordinate social impact, land acquisition, resettlement, and indigenous 
(tribal) people issues under the Project. 
 
27. 
 “State Level Empowered Committee” means the committee established by 
Government of Orissa and chaired by the Development Commissioner of the 
- 14 -
Project Implementing Entity, and whose members include the Engineer-in-Chief-
cum-Secretary of Works, Secretary Finance, Secretary Forest, Secretary 
Revenue, Chief Engineer (Roads), and Chief Engineer (World Bank Projects), or 
any successor or successors thereto. 
 
28. 
 “State of Orissa” means the State of Orissa of the Borrower. 
 
29.  
“Training” means reasonable and necessary costs of training related to Project 
implementation, including the fees of educational or other institutions that 
provide training, costs related to attendance or organization of conferences, 
seminars and workshops, and the trainees’ cost of travel, boarding, lodging and 
per diem allowances.  
 
