CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7716-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Institutional Development and Agriculture Strengthening Project) 
 
between 
 
MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 27, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 27 2009, between MONTENEGRO (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eleven million Euros (EUR 
11,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MAFWM in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
3
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the GEF Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Stanka Dragojevica 2 
81000 Podgorica 
Montenegro 
 
Facsimile:  
 
382 20 224 450 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Podgorica, Montenegro, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MONTENEGRO 
 
By /s/ Igor Luksic 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jan-Peter Olters 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve delivery of the Borrower’ assistance 
for sustainable agriculture and rural development in a manner consistent with the 
European Union pre-accession requirements. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A. Strengthening MAFWM’s Rural Development Program
1. 
Increasing Rural Development Funding for Target Measures and Areas: 
 
Provision of Rural Development Grants to Beneficiaries to support target 
measures and areas identified in the Grants Operational Manual, including: (a) 
investments in agricultural holdings and processing and marketing of agriculture and 
fishery products; and (b) the development of the rural economy through income 
diversification. 
 
2. 
Strengthening Extension and Advisory Services: 
 
Provision of technical assistance, training and goods and carrying out of civil 
works to: (a) strengthen the Borrower’s extension and advisory services’ capacity to 
support potential Beneficiaries in meeting standards, developing business plans, and 
preparing applications for Rural Development Grants; (b) strengthen the Borrower’s 
extension and advisory services’ capacity to further develop the Market Information 
System and develop a Farm Management and Record-Keeping Program; and (c) 
refurbish the facilities for the 12 regional centers and headquarters of the extension and 
advisory services. 
 
Part B. Strengthening MAFWM’s Administrative and Management Capacity
1. 
Administering EU IPARD compatible agriculture and rural development support 
programs:  
 
Provision of technical assistance, Training and goods and carrying out of civil 
works to:  (a) establish within MAFWM an EU IPARD compatible Rural Development 
Unit responsible for planning and evaluating the Borrower’s rural development program;  
(b) establish an EU IPARD compatible Proto-Paying Agency; and (c) prepare and 
implement MAFWM’s Systematization Plan, including the refurbishment or construction 
of facilities as deemed necessary under such Plan. 
 
6
2. 
Modernizing Agriculture Information Management Systems 
 
Provision of technical assistance, Training and goods and carrying out of civil 
works to help to build key components of the Borrower’s Integrated Administrative and 
Control System through: (a) support for the preparation, implementation and 
dissemination of the main Agricultural Census; and (b) development of a farm register 
and preparation of associated cadastre maps for vineyards, and olive and/or fruit 
orchards. 
 
3. 
Creating a Modern Food Safety System 
 
Provision of technical assistance and goods, and carrying out of civil works to: 
(a) upgrade National Reference Laboratories’ capacity in veterinary and seafood 
diagnostic testing; (b) upgrade the phyto-sanitary and veterinary Border Inspection Posts 
in the Borrower’s Port of Bar; (c) establish a system for safe disposal of animal by-
products; and (d) undertake a preliminary screening of private food processing 
establishments.  
 
Part C. Support for Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the Borrower’s Project management, monitoring and evaluation 
capacity through the provision of goods and consultant services, including Project audit, 
Training, and financing of Operating Costs. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the Project 
Steering Committee with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
The Project Steering Committee, which shall be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, 
Forestry and Water Management, shall be responsible for overall Project oversight and 
coordination. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, the Project 
Management Team with a composition, staff, resources and terms of reference acceptable 
to the Bank. The PMT shall be responsible for overall implementation, coordination, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. The PMT shall be headed by a Project 
Coordinator and shall comprise a Project Manager, a Monitoring and Evaluation 
Specialist and a part-time Environmental Specialist.   
 
3. 
The TSU shall be responsible for procurement, financial management and 
disbursement activities under the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Project Operational Manual, the Grants Operational Manual, the 
Procurement Plan, and the MOU and, to this end, the Borrower shall maintain, 
throughout the duration of the Project, the TSU with a composition, staff, resources and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
4. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with this Agreement, the 
Project Operational Manual and the Grants Operational Manual, and shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said Manuals without the prior 
written approval of the Bank. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Assessment and the Resettlement Policy Framework, and shall not amend, suspend, 
abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said Assessment or Framework without the 
prior written approval of the Bank. 
8
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no Loan proceeds are used to finance: (a) any 
new irrigation systems or extension of existing irrigation systems; (b) any agri-processing 
or other activities which could result in increased contamination of international water 
bodies; or (c) purchase of pesticides. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Parts A.2 (c), B.1, and B.3 (a), (b), and (c) of the Project and 
prior to the commencement of works for each proposed site, the Borrower shall: (a) 
submit to the Bank for its approval: (i) the proposed site for said works and, where 
required by the EA and/or RPF, the related site-specific environmental management plan, 
land acquisition and/or resettlement plan and checklist, said site-specific plans and 
checklist to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the proposed 
contract for said works to ensure that the provisions of said site-specific plans and 
checklist are adequately included in said contract; and (b) ensure that such works are 
carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework.  
D. 
Sub-projects 
1.  
Sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be selected, appraised, 
implemented and evaluated in accordance with the principles, procedures and 
requirements set forth in the Grants Operational Manual, Procurement and Consultants 
Guidelines, Anti-Corruption Guidelines, Environmental Assessment and Resettlement 
Policy Framework. 
2.  
The Borrower shall provide each Rural Development Grant under a Rural 
Development Grant Agreement with the respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the following:   
(a)  
the Rural Development Grant shall be denominated in EUR; and 
(b)  
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those 
of the Bank, including the right to:  
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Rural Development Grant, or obtain a refund of 
all or any part of the amount of the Rural Development Grant, 
upon the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations 
under the Rural Development Grant Agreement; and  
(ii) 
require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and 
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including 
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than 
9
the Borrower, the EA and the RPF; (B) provide, promptly as 
needed, the resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the 
goods, works and services to be financed out of the Rural 
Development Grant in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement, and the Procurement Guidelines; (D) maintain 
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of its 
objectives; (E) (1) maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a 
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (2) at the Bank’s or 
the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the 
Borrower and the Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to 
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records 
and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and 
the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Rural Development Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
10 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the TSU, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
11 
 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the modifications set forth in 
paragraph 3 below 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Community Participation Procurement. 
(d)  Commercial Practices 
(e)  Direct Contracting 
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower’s National Competitive Bidding Procedures: 
 
(i) 
Eligibility: foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(ii) 
Procedures: “Open procedures" shall be followed in all cases. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(iii) 
Pre-qualification: when pre-qualification shall be required for large or 
complex works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised 
in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum 
of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
(iv) 
Participation by government-owned enterprises: government-owned 
enterprises in Montenegro shall be eligible to participate in bidding only 
if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
government. Such enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(v) 
Bidding documents: procuring entities shall use the appropriate 
standard bidding documents for the procurement of works which shall 
contain draft contract and conditions of contract, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(vi) 
Submission of bids: bidders may, at their option, deliver bids either in 
person, by courier service, or by mail at any time prior to the deadline set 
the submission of bids. 
 
12 
 
(vii) 
Bid opening and bid evaluation: bids shall be opened in public and, if 
two envelopes are submitted for technical and price components, both 
shall be opened simultaneously.  The time for the bid opening shall be 
the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter, 
and shall be announced, together with the place for bid opening, in the 
solicitation documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict 
adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not 
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested 
without the prior approval of the Bank. Contracts shall be awarded to 
qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially 
responsive bid. Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidder or any other bidder. 
 
(viii) 
Price adjustment: civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than 
eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment 
clause. 
 
(ix) 
Rejection of bids: all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited 
without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(x) 
Contracts: all contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by 
authorized signatories of the purchaser and the supplier, and shall contain 
identical terms and conditions of contract to those included in the tender 
documents. 
 
(xi) 
Securities: bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the 
estimated cost of the contract; performance securities shall not exceed 
ten percent (10%). No advance payments shall be made to contractors 
without a suitable advance payment security. The wording of all such 
securities shall be included into the bidding documents and be acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
13 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget
(b) Least Cost Selection
(c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Single-Source Selection for the Selection of Individual Consultants
D. 
Procurement of Operating Costs 
 
Incremental expenditures included in the Operating Costs category can be 
procured in accordance with the established Borrower’s administrative procedures 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
14 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1)  Rural Development 
Grants under Part A.1 
of the Project  
 
4,787,200 
100% 
(2)  Goods, works, 
consultants’ services 
and Training  
 
6,067,900 
100% 
(3)  Operating Costs 
 
117,400 
100% 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
 
27,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(5)  Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
11,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed EUR 350,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after January 1, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (2) and 
(3); or   
 
(b) 
for expenditures under Category (1) unless the Borrower has: (i) adopted 
a Grants Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) 
established a Proto-Paying Agency on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
November 1, 2014 
11.00% 
May 1, 2015 
10.50% 
November 1, 2015 
10.00% 
May 1, 2016 
9.50% 
November 1, 2016 
9.00% 
May 1, 2017 
8.50% 
November 1, 2017 
8.00% 
May 1, 2018 
7.50% 
November 1, 2018 
7.00% 
May 1, 2019 
6.50% 
November 1, 2019 
6.50% 
May 1, 2020 
6.00% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
16 
 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
17 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means a recipient of a Rural Development Grant under Part A.1 of 
the Project, and includes private agricultural holdings, producer organizations, 
small and medium sized enterprises, NGOs and tourist associations, all selected 
in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Grants Operational 
Manual, and “Beneficiaries” means more than one such Beneficiary. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Co-financier” means Global Environmental Facility or GEF, referred to in 
paragraph 15 of the Appendix to the General Conditions. 
 
5. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of four million Dollars ($4,000,000) to be 
provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project. 
 
6. 
“Co-financing Agreement” or “GEF Grant Agreement” means the agreement, of 
even date herewith, between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an 
Implementing Agency of the Global Environmental Facility, providing for the 
Co-financing. 
 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
8. 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the assessment dated August 31, 
2008, prepared and adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, 
consisting of the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures 
required for the Project and to be taken to eliminate adverse environmental and 
social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as 
actions needed to implement said measures, including the measures and 
information required for the preparation of site-specific environmental 
management plans, land acquisition and/or resettlement plans and checklists 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
9. 
“European 
Union 
Instrument 
for 
Pre-Accession 
Assistance 
for 
Rural 
Development” or EU IPARD means the financial instrument of the European 
18 
 
Community for pre-accession assistance for rural development within the 
framework of the European Partnerships with the potential candidate countries 
and the Accession Partnerships of the candidate countries. 
 
10. 
“GEF Agreement” means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank of even date herewith. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
12. 
“Grants Operational Manual” means the manual describing procedures for 
implementation of the Rural Development Grants under Part A.1 of the Project, 
to be adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, and including, inter 
alia: (a) adequate procedures and controls relating to eligibility, evaluation, 
selection, procurement and flow of funds for grants with a view to ensure use of 
funds for intended purposes; and (b) adequate environmental and social 
safeguard measures. 
 
13. 
“MAFWM” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water 
Management and includes any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“Ministry of Finance” or “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and 
includes any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“MOU” means a Memorandum of Understanding, dated January 16, 2009, 
between MOF and MAFWM, satisfactory to the Bank, defining the roles and 
obligations of the parties in the implementation of the Project. 
 
16. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the TSU on 
account of Project related communication and office supplies and the incremental 
expenses incurred by the Project Management Team on account of the Project 
management, monitoring and evaluation, which may include the maintenance of 
a vehicle (including fuel costs), costs of office and equipment rental and 
maintenance, translation and interpretation, communication, printing and 
publications, supplies, local travel costs and field trip expenses (including per 
diem), bank charges, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the 
Project implementation, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
19 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
January 22, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Project Management Team” or “PMT” means the Borrower’s Project 
Management Team to be established and maintained within MAFWM in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual describing procedures for 
implementation of the Project, dated March 3, 2009, adopted by the Borrower 
and satisfactory to the Bank, and including, inter alia: (a) procedures governing 
staffing, procurement, accounting, financial management, including adequate 
measures for procurement and forensic audits, environmental and social 
safeguards, and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; and (b) the financial 
management manual. 
 
21. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the Project Steering Committee to be 
established and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 1 of 
Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Proto-Paying Agency means the body, established by the Borrower pursuant to 
paragraph 1(b) of Part B of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, that will 
be responsible for (i) processing aid applications; (ii) authorizing and executing 
payments in line with the eligibility criteria defined in the Grants Operational 
Manual; (iii) organizing on-the-spot ex-ante and ex-post controls; and (iv) 
carrying out internal audits. 
 
23. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework submitted to the Bank on November 14, 2008, which establishes the 
potential resettlement and compensation principles, organizational arrangements 
and design criteria to be applied to project implementation in compliance with 
the laws of Montenegro and the Bank’s safeguards policy on involuntary 
resettlement. 
 
24. 
“Rural Development Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower to a Beneficiary under Part A.1 of the Project; and “Rural 
Development Grants” means more than one such grant. 
 
25. 
“Rural Development Grant Agreement” means the agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and a Beneficiary according to terms and conditions set 
forth in paragraph 2 of Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as 
such agreement may be amended from time to time by its parties. 
20 
 
26. 
“Sub-project” means a sub-project selected and approved by the Borrower to be 
financed by a Rural Development Grant in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the Grants Operational Manual. 
 
27. 
“Systematization Plan” means the action plan for the reorganization of agriculture 
sector institutions to be prepared by MAFWM in the desire to bring its 
institutional framework more in line with EU requirements. 
 
28. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment 
rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, 
trainers’ fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs. 
 
29. 
“TSU” means the Technical Services Unit within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance. 
 
