CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7742-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Solid Waste Management Program Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 4, 2009 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7742-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 4, 2009 between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the 
“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
- 2 -
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn and outstanding, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MAVDT in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out through MAVDT, in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV —EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on February 4, 2011. 
 
- 3 -
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, República de Colombia 
 
Facsimile: (57-1) 350-9344 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Silvia Constain 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Tuck 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of the regional solid 
waste management component of the Borrower’s Program, which aims at improving the 
quality and coverage of integrated solid waste management services in the territory of the 
Borrower.  
 
The Project consists of the following part: 
 
Part 1: Development of and Investments in Solid Waste Disposal Systems
1.1. 
Carrying out of investments (each, an “SWM Investment”) in solid waste 
management infrastructure of the Participating Municipality consisting of civil 
works, equipment and services in support of the rehabilitation, construction, 
and/or expansion of landfills and transfer stations in selected sites and the closing 
of non-sanitary open-air landfills.  
 
1.2. 
Provision of technical advisory services for the development of SWM 
Investments, including with respect to their engineering designs, environmental 
impact assessments, social assessments and other related studies required under 
the Borrower’s sector regulatory framework, as found satisfactory by the Bank.  
 
1.3. 
Development of social inclusion, skills building and entrepreneurial programs for 
waste pickers to mitigate potential adverse impact on their livelihoods as may be 
caused by the closing of open-air dumps and, in connection therewith, the 
provision of financing for the carrying out of the resettlement and compensation 
processes in respect of any potential loss of property or income arising out of an 
SWM investment. 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
For purposes of the entire Project implementation, the Borrower, through MAVDT, shall 
carry out the following actions, as set forth in this Schedule 2.  
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
vest main responsibility for Project implementation, management 
coordination and supervision in  VAS which shall include a solid waste 
management unit specially staffed at all times during Project 
implementation with personnel adequate in numbers and having 
functions, experience and resources  satisfactory to the Bank  in respect 
of technical, environmental, community outreach, communications, 
administrative and fiduciary capacity needed for the Project, all as 
further described in the Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
ensure an active and efficient collaboration, for purposes of Project 
implementation, between VAS, selected MAVDT structures and 
departments and other Borrower’s agencies and entities, listed in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(c) 
ensure that: (i) a Fiduciary Contract shall be entered into between the 
Fiduciary Agent and each Participating Department; and thereafter (ii) 
throughout Project implementation, all appropriate steps  in MAVDT’s 
capacity, acting thereunder for the Borrower, shall be taken for the 
maintenance  of the said Fiduciary Contracts entered into for purposes of 
carrying out the Project, administering the proceeds of the Loan and 
other funds exclusively intended for the Project, all as set forth in the 
Operational Manual and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
The Borrower shall exercise and carry out and/or cause to be exercised 
and carried out the rights and the obligations of each party under the 
Fiduciary Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The 
Borrower shall cause the Fiduciary Contract or any of its provisions not 
to be amended, assigned, abrogated, suspended, repealed, terminated, 
waived or failed to be enforced, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree;  
- 7 -
(d) 
ensure that the Inter-administrative Agreement (Convenio de Uso de 
Recursos) between MAVDT and a Participating Department  and related 
to the use by the Participating Department of MAVDT resources  
allocated to the Participating Department for water and sanitation 
management purposes, is maintained throughout Project implementation 
and duly complied with in all its terms and conditions; and 
 
(e) 
ensure that: (i) any and all amounts payable under this Agreement to the  
Participating 
Departments 
and 
the 
Participating 
Municipalities 
respectively shall be deposited and/or caused to be deposited in the 
accounts specified by the Fiduciary Agent in accordance with the 
Fiduciary Contract and the Operational Manual; and thereafter (ii) for 
purposes of carrying out the Project, the  Participating Departments shall 
for themselves and on behalf of the Participating Municipalities and until 
the completion of the Project,  ensure that the Fiduciary Agent allocates 
and makes available a portion of the  amounts so deposited as agreed 
with the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Specific Procedures for SWM Investments 
 
1. 
Before initiating any SWM Investment in a Participating Municipality of a 
Participating Department and as a condition to carrying out such SWM 
Investment and for making any withdrawal under Category (1), the Borrower 
shall ensure that the  Participating Department shall require  the Participating 
Municipality to (the Requirements): 
 
(a) 
if the Participating Municipality has an existing Operator Contract, 
renegotiate and amend the Operator Contract with the Specialized 
Operator that is the party to such Operator Contract to incorporate the 
provisions that are necessary to carry out such SWM Investment, 
including, inter alia: (i) the applicable provisions of this Agreement; (ii) 
the procedures that the Specialized Operator must follow in carrying out 
the proposed SWM Investment; (iii) the new execution and performance 
improvement arrangements for the Specialized Operator; (iv) the amount 
of financing for the Investment to be provided to the Specialized 
Operator by the Borrower and the Participating Municipality; and (v) the 
Participating Department’s Intervention Rights (including, inter alia,
those rights described in paragraph 4 of Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement); 
- 8 -
(b) 
if the Participating Municipality does not have an existing Operator 
Contract, commence the bidding process for selecting a Specialized 
Operator in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual; and 
 
(c) 
enter into a financial support agreement (Convenio Gestor Departamento 
Municipio) with the Participating Department, substantially in the form 
incorporated in the Operational Manual and on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank (“Financial Support Agreement”), including, inter 
alia: (i) the Participating Municipality’s obligation to ensure that the 
Specialized Operator carries out all SWM Investments in accordance 
with the applicable provisions of this Agreement, the Operational 
Manual, the ESMF, the Procurement Guidelines, the Consultant 
Guidelines, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Procurement Plan; 
(ii) the Participating Department’s obligation to have its  funds for the 
Project deposited in the account specified by the Fiduciary Agent; (iii) 
an assignment of authority by the Participating Municipality to the 
Participating Department to provide the Fiduciary Agent with 
instructions as to the disbursement of its municipal funds for the Project; 
(iv) compliance with the requirements of this paragraph and with the 
applicable provisions of this Agreement and the Operational Manual; and 
(v) any additional terms and conditions required by MAVDT and the 
Participating Department as a condition to allowing the Participating 
Municipality to participate in the Project.  
 
2. 
If the Bank receives evidence that the Requirements have been satisfied with 
respect to the Participating Municipality, the Borrower may make withdrawals of 
the proceeds of the Loan under Category (1) of the table of Section IV.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions specified 
therein and in this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures related to any SWM 
Investment in the Participating Municipality. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall obtain rights under the applicable Implementation 
Agreements that are adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, 
including, inter alia, the right to: 
 
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of any Implementing Party to receive or 
use the proceeds of the Loan, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the 
amount of the Loan then withdrawn, upon the Implementing Party’s 
failure to perform any of its respective obligations under the 
Implementation Agreements to which it is a party; and 
 
(b) 
require each Implementing Party to: (i) carry out its activities under the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social 
- 9 -
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower; (ii) provide, 
promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (iii) procure 
the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (iv) maintain policies 
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in 
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the 
Project and the achievement of its objectives; (v): (A) maintain a 
financial management system and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project; and (B) at the Bank’s, the 
Participating Department’s or the Borrower’s request, have such 
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited 
to the Borrower and the Bank; (vi) enable the Borrower and/ or  the Bank 
to inspect the SWM Investment, its operation and any relevant records 
and documents; and (vii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the 
Bank all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall: (a) exercise its rights under all of the Implementation 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (b) cause any 
Implementing Party not to fail, in the opinion of the Bank, to perform any of its 
obligations under the Implementation Agreements to which it is a party, 
including, inter alia, those obligations described in Section I.C of this Schedule. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and shall not 
cause or allow any Implementing Party to, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Implementation Agreements or any of their provisions. 
 
D. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of: 
 
(a) 
this Agreement, including, inter alia, the provisions in this Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual, the ESMF and the Procurement Plan; 
 
(c) 
the Fiduciary Contract;  
(d) 
the Inter-administrative Agreement; and 
- 10 -
(e) 
the Financial Support Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each Implementing Party to carry out its respective 
activities under the Project in accordance with the provisions of: 
 
(a) 
this Agreement, including, inter alia, the provisions in this Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
 
(c) 
the Operational Manual, the ESMF and the Procurement Plan; and 
 
(d) 
the Implementation Agreements to which such Implementing Party is a 
party. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out or cause the carrying out of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of a manual dated July 2, 2009, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank (the “Operational Manual”), that shall contain 
the policies and procedures for carrying out, monitoring and evaluating all parts 
of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a) 
the detailed eligibility criteria and procedures for the Participating 
Municipalities, in accordance with Decree No. 3200 of 2008 of the 
Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the detailed eligibility criteria and procedures for selecting a Specialized 
Operator in cases where a Participating Municipality does not have an 
existing Operator Contract, in accordance with Law 142 of 1994 of the 
Borrower; 
 
(c) 
the detailed funds flow and financial arrangements for both 
implementation of the Project including, inter alia, the flow of proceeds 
of the Loan and other Project funds under the Inter-administrative 
Agreement to and from the Fiduciary Agent; 
 
(d) 
the steps of the process of selecting, implementing, monitoring and 
evaluating each of the SWM Investments, including, inter alia: (i) the 
review of each proposed POI, bidding documents, and procurement 
contracts; (ii) the review of the documentation provided by the Fiduciary 
Agent in respect of Project expenditures under this Agreement and; (iii) 
the timing for the signing of the Implementation Agreements; 
 
(e) 
the powers, functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff of 
MAVDT and VAS; 
- 11 -
(f) 
the model forms of all of the Implementation Agreements and the 
standard bidding documents and contracts to be used for procurement of 
goods, works and services under the Project; 
 
(g) 
the final form of the interim unaudited financial reports and Financial 
Statements for the Project and the terms of reference for the audits of the 
Project; and 
 
(h) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements, 
procedures and documentation for the Project. 
 
4. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and shall not 
cause or allow any Implementing Party to amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the Operational Manual, the Fiduciary Contract, the ESMF or any 
respective provisions thereof.  In case of any conflict between the terms of this 
Agreement and those of the Operational Manual or any Implementation 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, through MAVDT require that: 
 
(a) 
all of the procurement of works under the Project, is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement, the Procurement Guidelines, and the Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
all contractors and consultants providing goods or carrying out works 
and services under the Project carry out their activities under the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social 
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance 
with the provisions of the ESMF and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the Borrower, and 
the applicable provisions of the Operational Manual; 
 
(c) 
all bidding documents and contracts under the Project incorporate the 
environmental and social standards satisfactory to the Bank and provide 
the Borrower with the Intervention Rights, including, inter alia: (i) upon 
the contractor’s or consultant’s failure to perform any of its obligations 
under the applicable contract, the ability to: (A) suspend or terminate the 
right of any contractor or consultant to receive or use the proceeds of the 
Loan; or (B) obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Loan 
withdrawn as of then; (ii) the right to inspect any SWM Investment, its 
operation and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) the right to 
request all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request relating to the Project; and 
- 12 -
(d) 
the Participating Departments shall monitor the compliance of 
contractors and consultants with the financial, managerial, environmental 
and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2014. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or shall cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
Annex A to this Schedule, and with the provisions of this Section. 
- 13 -
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section and in Annex A to 
this Schedule to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review 
by the Bank of particular contracts refer to the corresponding method described 
in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  Annex A to this Schedule 2 
specifies the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set 
forth in Section I of Annex A to this Schedule 2. 
(b) 
Shopping, subject to the additional provisions set forth in Section II of 
Annex A to this Schedule 2. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultant firms for services estimated to 
cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national 
consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  Except as otherwise 
indicated in the following table, the Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
- 14 -
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) 
Least Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications for those contracts that 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
(e) 
Single-source Selection 
(f) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following processes and documents shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: 
 
(a) 
the procurement process, including, inter alia, all forms and models of 
requests for quotations and bidding documents, for the procurement of 
goods or works procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding, National Competitive Bidding, or Shopping; and 
 
(b) 
the selection process, including, inter alia, all forms and models of 
requests for proposals and proposal documents, for consultants’ services 
that are provided by: (i) a firm and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; or (ii) an individual and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
 
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither the Borrower nor any 
Implementing Party shall revise or otherwise modify or change the documents 
that have been approved by the Bank in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Section III.D. 
 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:   
 
(a) 
(i) all contracts for goods procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding irrespective of their amount; and (ii) all contracts 
for works, irrespective of their amounts and the methods under which  
each one of them is procured; 
- 15 -
(b) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by: (i) a firm and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) an 
individual and estimated to cost $50,000 or more; and 
 
(c) 
all contracts for consultants’ services awarded on the basis of Single-
source Selection. 
 
4. 
In addition to the contracts described in paragraph 3 of this Section III.D, the 
Procurement Plan shall set forth those other contracts which shall be subject to 
the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by 
the Bank.  In the case of a conflict between the provisions of the Procurement 
Plan and the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower will ensure that the 
provisions of this Agreement will prevail. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and 
 
consultants’ services under 
 
Part 1.1 of the Project 
 
18,000,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
services and  Training 
 
under Parts 1.2 and 1.3 of 
 
the Project 
 
2,000,000
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
20,000,000 
 
- 16 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made from the Loan Account: 
 
(a) 
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee;   
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
for payments made under Category (1) in the table of paragraph A.2  
above until and unless: (a) an Operator Contract, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the carrying out of SWM investments and including: (i) a 
detailed procurement assessment in relation thereto; and (ii) adequate 
environmental and social mitigation measures therefor, shall have been 
entered into between the Participating Municipality and a Specialized 
Operator, all in accordance with the criteria, procedures, terms and 
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and the ESMF. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
- 17 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
Additional Provisions Relating to  
Particular Methods of Procurement 
 
Section I. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following 
additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall use, or cause to 
be used, standard bidding documents, as approved by the Bank for 
bidding under the Project and incorporated in the Operational Manual 
(the “Standard Bidding Documents”). Any change or departure from the 
Standard Bidding Document approved by the Bank shall require its prior 
approval. 
 
(b) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or citizens of the 
Borrower’s territory, will be treated equally and, particularly, no 
preference will be granted to any bidder or group of bidders for bid 
evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their bids by 
hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall 
not be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's 
registration in any public registry, chamber of commerce or similar 
entity, whether in the Borrower’s territory or elsewhere, or to appoint a 
representative domiciled in Borrower’s territory, unless and until such 
bidder is awarded the corresponding contract. 
 
(c) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and 
place for the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding 
documents. Bid opening shall coincide with, or take place promptly after, 
the final date and time of the period for bid submission stipulated in the 
bidding documents. 
 
(d) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial 
standards of capability and whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made exclusively on 
the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
- 18 -
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied 
for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely 
stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and 
comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall 
be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, 
including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
(e) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the 
persons officially charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating 
the bids while they are performing their official duties, without the 
corresponding bidder’s written authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not 
be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of 
contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of 
the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which confidentiality 
has been specifically requested by the bidder in question. 
 
Section II. 
Shopping
Contracts for goods or works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping subject to the 
following additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall obtain and compare at least three quotations to 
establish reasonableness of price. Comparison of two quotations is 
justified only when there is evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that there 
are only two reliable sources of supply (national or foreign as the case 
may be). For international shopping, the Borrower shall request 
quotations of suppliers from at least two different countries, including 
the country of the Borrower. Quotation for foreign goods located in the 
Borrower’s country and offered by a firm located in the Borrower’s 
country, are considered as quoted from abroad for purposes of satisfying 
the “two different countries” rule. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall verify that the firms invited to quote are reputable, 
well established, and are suppliers of the goods or services being 
purchased as part of their normal business. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall request quotations by letter, fax, telex, electronic 
messaging, etc., (with proof of receipt and record keeping). Since 
quotation requests must be sent to reputable and well-established 
suppliers only, the requests should not be open to any other supplier and 
should not be made public. Suppliers shall submit their quotations in 
- 19 -
writing, (i.e., by fax, telex, letter, or electronic messaging with copies to 
be kept for the records).  No bid security is required.  There is no 
requirement for strict time and date for submission of quotations and for 
public opening, but normally requests for quotes indicate the expected 
date of submission of quotes, within one or two weeks of the initial 
request. 
- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
February 15, 2020  
10% 
August 15, 2020 
10% 
February 15, 2021 
10% 
August 15, 2021 
10% 
February 15, 2022 
10% 
August 15, 2022 
10% 
February 15, 2023 
10% 
August 15, 2023 
10% 
February 15, 2024 
10% 
August 15, 2024 
10% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
- 21 -
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
- 22 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I: Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“ESMF” means the Environmental and Social Management Framework dated 
June 17, 2009, prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank on even date 
therewith. 
 
5. 
“Fiduciary Agent” means a financial institution acceptable to the Bank that shall 
act as the fiduciary agent (Fiduciaria) under the Fiduciary Contract or any 
successor agent acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.  
 
6. 
“Fiduciary Contract” means the fiduciary contract (Contrato de Encargo 
Fiduciario de Administración y Pagos) entered into between the Participating 
Department, and the Fiduciary Agent for the administration of the various funds 
of the Project, including inter alia, the proceeds of the Loan, in accordance with 
the laws of the Borrower and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
 
7. 
“Financial Support Agreement” (Convenio Gestor Departamento Municipio) has 
the meaning given to it in Section I.C.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
9. 
“Implementation Agreement” means any of the following: the Fiduciary 
Contract, Inter-administrative Agreement, Financial Support Agreements and 
Operator Contracts.  “Implementation Agreements” means collectively, all of 
such agreements. 
 
10. 
“Implementing Party” means any of the following: the Fiduciary Agent, a 
Participating Department, a Participating Municipality, or a Specialized 
Operator.  “Implementing Parties” means collectively, all such persons. 
- 23 -
11. 
“Inter-Administrative Agreement” means an agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and any of the Participating Departments concerning the allocation and 
use of funds provided to them for waste and sanitation management purposes.  
 
12. 
“Intervention Rights” means those rights of intervention (Derechos de 
Intervención) granted to the Borrower, through MAVDT or a Participating 
Department under any contract related to the Project to which the Borrower 
and/or the participating Department are not otherwise a party or signatory, 
pursuant to Decree No. 3200 of 2008 of the Borrower. 
 
13. 
“MAVDT” means Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda, y Desarrollo Territorial,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Regional Development. 
 
14. 
“Operational Manual” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 3 of Section I.D 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended, supplemented or 
otherwise modified from time to time with the consent of the Bank. 
 
15. 
“Operator Contract” means an agreement between a Participating Municipality 
and a Specialized Operator for the final disposal of solid waste in the 
Participating Municipalities.  
 
16. 
“Participating Department” means an administrative subdivision of the 
Borrower’s territory which has been selected under the Project to support the 
carrying out of SWM infrastructure by any Participating Municipality of that  
Participating Department. 
 
17. 
“Participating Municipality” means a municipality in a Participating Department 
of the territory of the Borrower which  has met the eligibility criteria described in 
the Operational Manual for participating in the Project and whose participation 
has been approved by the Bank. 
 
18. 
“POI” means the capital investment plans for SWM infrastructure works (Planes 
General y Anuales Estratégicos y de Inversiones del Plan Departamental de 
Aguas) prepared on multi-annual basis by each Specialized Operator, pursuant to 
Decree No. 3200 of 2008 of the Borrower. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 12, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
- 24 -
21. 
“Program” means a program of the Borrower for water and sanitation 
management in its territory, adopted on March 16, 2009 through Policy 
document No. 3574 of the Consejo de Política Económica y Social (CONPES), 
the Borrower’s council for economic and social policy.  
 
22. 
“Requirements” has the meaning given to it in paragraph 1 of Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Specialized Operator” means an entity that meets the eligibility criteria specified 
in the Operational Manual, including, inter alia, being a public or private, 
commercially independent entity that has full responsibility for managing the 
water supply and sanitation service infrastructure, including final disposal of 
solid waste, of one or more municipalities, including, inter alia, for tariff setting, 
billing and collection, and the provision of services. 
 
24. 
“Standard Bidding Documents” has the meaning given to it in clause (a) of 
Section I of Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
25. 
“SWM Investment” has the meaning given to it in Part 1.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
26. 
“Training” means in respect of Categories 2 in the table in Section IV.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility 
rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses. 
 
27. 
“VAS” means Vice-Ministerio de Agua y Saneamiento, MAVDT’s Vice Ministry 
for Water and Sanitation.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
- 25 -
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
