CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER   7642 LE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Loan for the Urban Transport Development Project) 
 
between 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 30, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7642 LE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated January 30, 2009, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, 
in the Original Loan Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty-nine million and seven 
hundred thousand Dollars ($69,700,000) (“Loan”), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement, to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with  
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. On or promptly after the Effectiveness 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of said fee. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
- 2 -
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;  (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Fixed Rate to a Variable Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out Part D of the Project; and (b) shall cause 
the Project Implementing Entity to carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
- 3 -
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that 
Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated April 
3, 2001 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity 
to perform any of its obligations under the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the effectiveness of 
the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 9.01(c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Riad El-Solh Square 
Beirut 
Lebanese Republic 
 
Facsimile: 
 
961 1 642 762
- 4 -
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beirut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
By: /s/ Mohammed Chatah 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Hedi Larbi 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the urban transport infrastructure for 
the Great Beirut Area. 
The Project consists of the Original Project.  
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain at all times the PMU with members whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, to assist 
the Project Implementing Entity in the carrying out of the Project and to assist the Project 
Implementing Entity and MPWT in the coordination of its implementation. 
 
2. 
Responsibility for the overall management and coordination of the Project 
activities shall be vested in the PMU, to be maintained within the Project Implementing 
Entity and to include the following members: (a) a traffic engineer; (b) a 
highway/structural engineer; (c) a parking specialist; (d) a procurement/construction 
management specialist; and (e) an accountant/financial management specialist, all with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through DGLMT of MPWT, shall carry out Part D of the Project 
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and, except as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Plan if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
 
4. 
Responsibility for the oversight of the Project activities, general policy guidance, 
coordination and monitoring of the carrying out of the Project shall be vested in the 
Steering Committee, to be maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the 
Project and chaired by the Minister of Finance, with membership of: (a) the Minister of 
Public Works and Transport; (b) the Minister of Interior and Municipalities; and (c) the 
President of CDR. 
 
5. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Parts of the Project, the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available, 
as a grant, to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by 
the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
 
6. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
- 7 -
7. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall enable TMO to 
enter into long-term concession agreements with the Greater Beirut Area municipalities 
with exclusive rights to operate the on-street paid parking programs of the municipalities, 
under terms and conditions adequate to ensure the long term operational viability of the 
TMO. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with provisions of the 
Environmental Management Plan and the RAP; (ii) take all actions relating to the 
carrying out of the Project, as well as ensuring the provision of funds, facilities, services, 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,  
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
- 8 -
3. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements of the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2. 
National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding 
procedures subject to the Bank’s procurement procedures.  
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following methods, other than 
International Competitive Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
the procurement of goods for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) 
Shopping; and (b) Direct Contracting.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which the said procurement methods may be used. 
- 9 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for the procurement 
of consultants’ services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS); (b) Selection under a Fixed 
Budget (FBS); (c) Least Cost Selection (LCS); (d) Single Source (SSS); and (e) 
Individual Consultants.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which the said procurement methods may be used. 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
2. 
Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to 
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
- 10 -
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)   Works 
 
(a) under Parts A and B of 
the Project 
 
(b) under Part C of the 
Project 
 
7,788,690 
 
47, 843, 630 
 
100% 
(2)  Goods 
 
(a) under Parts A, B, C 
and E of the Project  
 
(b)  under Part D of the 
Project 
 
12,056,870 
 
0
100% 
 
(3)  Consultants’ services 
and training 
 
(a)  under Parts A, B, C 
and E of the Project 
 
(b)  under Part D of the 
Project 
 
1,836,560 
 
0
100% 
 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
 
174,250 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(5)  Premia for Interest Rate       
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
69,700,000
- 11 -
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after February 1, 2008 for Eligible Expenditures under 
Categories (1), (2) and (3); and 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1), until evidence, satisfactory 
to the Bank, has been furnished to the Bank showing that the land acquisition process has 
been completed in accordance with the procedures, and on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in RAP. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each January 15 
and July 15, the first installment to be payable on the 13th Interest Payment Date 
following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to 
be payable on the 52nd Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the 
Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-fortieth 
(1/40) of the Disbursed Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining 
outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.  
 
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after 
January 15, 2038, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all 
such installments. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
- 13 -
APPENDIX 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits 
and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“DGLMT” means the Directorate General of Land and Maritime Transport of 
MPWT (defined hereinafter).  
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
6. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s environmental assessment, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 20, 2004, including, inter alia: (i) 
the identification and assessment of potential environmental impact of activities to be 
carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of alternative measures; and (iii) the EMP 
(as hereinafter defined) detailing the appropriate mitigation, monitoring, institutional and 
management measures required for the implementation of the Project with a view to 
ensuring compliance of the activities referred to in sub-paragraph (i) herein with said 
measures and to eliminating adverse environmental impacts, offsetting such impacts, or 
reducing them to acceptable levels. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Borrower’s 
Environmental Management Plan, including the CRMP, all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 20, 2004, and incorporated in the Environmental 
Assessment. 
 
8. 
“MPWT” means the Ministry of Public Works and Transport of the 
Borrower or any successor thereof. 
 
9. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement for the Urban Transport 
Development Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated September 26, 2002 
(Loan No. 7123-LE ) approved by the Borrower’s Law No. 505 dated July 16, 2003 
(published in the Official Gazette No. 34 dated July 19, 2003), as amended to the date of 
- 14 -
this Agreement.  
 
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.  
 
11. 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Borrower’s 
MoPWH and submitted to the Bank on March 20, 2004, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3.01(b) of the Original Loan Agreement, setting out the principles and procedures 
governing the implementation of the Project, such plan to, inter alia: (i) define the 
respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation of the 
Project; (ii) set forth the timetable of actions required to be carried out under the Project; 
(iii) identify the procedures to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards 
the achievement of the objectives of the Project; (iv) set out the details for the 
implementation of the EMP including CRMP; and (v) set out the details for the 
implementation of the RAP (as hereinafter defined).  
 
12. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established and operating within the Project 
Implementing Entity (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the CDR Bureau Decision No. 
219/2000B dated June 9, 2000. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
December 18, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Council for Development and 
Reconstruction, or CDR, a public authority established and operating pursuant to the 
Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001 
and as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
16. 
“RAP” means the Borrower’s Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan dated 
February 12, 2004, approved by the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the compensation 
entitlement, institutional arrangements, implementation program, monitoring mechanism 
and cost estimates for the resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected by the 
implementation of the Project, disclosed locally and through the Bank’s InfoShop, and 
referred to in paragraphs 1 (b) and 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.5 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
18. 
“TMO” means the Traffic Management Organization, an autonomous organization 
established by virtue of Decree No. 4082 dated October 14, 2000 to perform the functions 
- 15 -
of: (i) on-street parking regulation and management in coordination with the competent 
authorities; (ii) traffic surveillance, control and enforcement support; (iii) traffic 
operations planning; (iv) traffic engineering research; and (v) traveler information and 
public awareness. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end 
Fee and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, 
withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the 
amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the 
advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such 
date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the 
Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing 
Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank 
or the Association or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank 
or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
