CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7719-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit 2 Project –
Programa Estadual de Transportes – PET II)
between 
 
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 24, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7719- BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 24, 2009, between the STATE OF RIO DE 
JANEIRO (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $211,700,000 (two hundred eleven 
million and seven hundred thousand Dollars), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to partially finance the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is its State Secretary of Transportation.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no objection 
of the Guarantor, through its Secretariat of National Treasury of its 
Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower, through the Subsidiary Agreement, shall cause the Project to 
be carried out by CENTRAL in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that 
CENTRAL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
3
Subsidiary Agreement to an extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, would 
materially and adversely affect the achievement of the Project objective. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 120 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the 
 
Subsidiary Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and 
 
CENTRAL. 
 
5.02. The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CENTRAL and is legally binding upon CENTRAL in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on January 10, 2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Palácio Guanabara 
Rua Pinheiro Machado, s/n 
Rio de Janeiro – RJ, 22 238-900 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-3773 
 
4
With copies to: 
 
SEAIN – Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do Ministério do Planejamento, 
Orçamento e Gestão 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K – 5º andar 
Brasília – DF, 70040-906 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
Secretaria de Estado de Transportes 
Avenida Nossa Senhora de Copacabana, 493 11º andar 
Rio de Janeiro – RJ, 22031-000 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-21) 2333-9121 
 
Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda 
Rua da Alfândega, 42 – 1º andar 
Rio de Janeiro - RJ,  20 070-000 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-4513 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
 
By /s/ Sérgio Cabral 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is: (a) to improve the level-of-service provided to the 
suburban rail transport users in the RJMR in a safe and cost-efficient manner; and (b) to 
improve the transport management and policy framework in the RJMR. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A: Infrastructure and Equipment
Acquisition of at least thirty (30) trains (EMUs) of four (4) cars each and 
accessories for a total of at least 120 cars to be operated, on the lines of CENTRAL’s 
System, by the Concessionaire under the terms of the Concessionaire Contract.  
 
Part B: Institutional and Policy Development
1.  
Provision of technical assistance to SETRANS for the carrying out of studies on 
policy development, including: (a) consolidating the AMTU-RJ for the RJMR; (b) 
updating the current integrated transport policy, land use and air quality 
management master plan (PDTU) for the RJMR to meet both transport and air 
quality targets and to introduce sound cost-recovery, tariff, regulatory and subsidy 
policies; and (c) supporting the adoption of Integrated Modal Tariffs. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to CENTRAL for the management and 
supervision of the Project, including the acquisition and reception of the trains 
(EMUs).  
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall implement the Project in accordance 
with the Procurement Plan and shall maintain, at all times during the execution 
and until completion of the Project, a Project management unit within 
CENTRAL to be responsible for monitoring of Project implementation and for 
the overall coordination of the Project (the “PMIG”). The PMIG shall have staff, 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes 
of assisting CENTRAL in the implementation the Project. The PMIG shall be 
headed at all times by a Project coordinator with qualifications, experience, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, who shall report directly 
to the Director-President of CENTRAL. 
2. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall enter into an agreement with 
CENTRAL, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the “Subsidiary 
Agreement”), to set forth the respective responsibilities of the Borrower and 
CENTRAL in the implementation of the Project including, inter alia:
(a) 
CENTRAL’s responsibility to procure the goods and services under the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower’s responsibility, through its relevant agencies, to comply 
and/or ensure compliance by the Concessionaire with the safeguard, 
technical, fiduciary and other requirements of the Loan Agreement 
applicable to the Project.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
8
C. 
Environmental and Social Provisions 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through SETRANS, shall carry out and shall cause CENTRAL 
and the Concessionaire to carry the Project in accordance with the provisions and 
recommendations of the Environmental Management Plan (including provisions 
regarding pest management). 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators agreed with the Bank (“Indicators”). Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than three months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to maintain a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to prepare and furnish to the Bank 
not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SETRANS, shall cause CENTRAL to have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period. 
9
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of goods, non-
consultants services and works, convite, tomada de preços and 
concorrência set forth in the Guarantor’s Law No. 8.666 of June 21, 
1993, and, pregão eletrônico set forth in the Guarantor’s Law No. 
10520 of July 17, 2002).  Contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding are subject to  the following additional procedures, 
namely that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b) Shopping  
10
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS)  
 
Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications (CQS)  
 
Least Cost Selection (LCS) 
 
Single-Source Selection (SSS) 
 
Quality-based Selection (QBS) 
 
Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
11
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed
(1) Goods (including 
warehousing) for Part A of 
the Project 
 
206,370,750 
 
100% 
(2)  Consultant services 
for  Part B of the Project  
 
4,800,000 
 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
529,250 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
211,700,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $42,340,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments made within one year prior to this date but in no case before 
December 22, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. The Bank shall only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank 
that it agrees with such extension. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall, within the limits of its authority, at all times during the 
implementation and until the completion of the Project: (i) maintain the AMTU-RJ; and 
(ii) introduce and maintain a type of Integrated Modal Tariff (IMT), in the present or 
other format as long as it continues to enhance the mobility and affordability of 
metropolitan transport to users, particularly those of low-income. In addition, the 
Borrower shall undertake its best efforts to extend the IMT to other modes of 
transportation and expand the AMTU-RJ to include other municipalities of the RJMR. 
12
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 
15 and October 15, the first installment to be payable on the fifteenth (15th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed 
Amount and the last installment to be payable on the forty-ninth (49th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-thirty-fifth (1/35) of 
the Disbursed Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining 
outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.  
 
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after April 
15, 2039, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all 
such installments. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed 
Amount. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that 
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency. 
 
13
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“AMTU-RJ” means Agência Metropolitana de Transporte Urbano do Estado do Rio 
de Janeiro, the urban transport agency for RJMR (as hereinafter defined), 
established pursuant to an agreement dated December 19, 1997, sponsored by the 
Borrower and entered or expected to be entered into by the municipalities which 
are part of the RJMR (as hereinafter defined).  
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“CENTRAL” means Companhia Estadual de Engenharia de Transportes e 
Logística, S.A., the Borrower’s transport engineering and logistics company 
responsible for urban train transportation, established pursuant to the CENTRAL 
Legislation. 
 
5. 
“CENTRAL Legislation” means the Borrower’s Decree No. 27.898 dated March 
9, 2001 and Borrower’s Decree No. 28.313 dated May 11, 2001, as amended and 
complemented by the Minutes of the Extraordinary General Assembly of 
CENTRAL, dated May 30, 2001. 
 
6. 
“CENTRAL's System” means the railway network in RJMR (as hereinafter 
defined) comprising: (a) five main broad gauge electrified corridors (Deodoro, 
Japeri, Santa Cruz, Leopoldina and Belford Roxo); and (b) three corridors non-
electrified, in meter gauge (Vila Inhomirim, Guapimirim and Niterói-Visconde 
de Itaboraí). 
 
7. 
“Concession Contract” means the contract entered into between the Borrower 
and the Concessionaire (as hereinafter defined), dated September 17, 1998, with 
CENTRAL, a third interested party, governing the concession awarded to such 
Concessionaire to operate, manage and maintain the CENTRAL's System (as 
hereinafter defined). 
 
8. 
“Concessionaire” means the consortium (which at present is SuperVia) to which 
the Borrower has awarded the concession to operate, manage and maintain the 
CENTRAL's System pursuant to the terms of the Concession Contract.  
 
14
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
10. 
“EMUs” means electrical multiple units. 
 
11. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan for assessment and 
management of the Project environmental impacts, dated October 28, 2008, and 
set 
forth 
in 
the 
Concessionaire’s 
Website 
(which 
at 
present 
is 
www.supervia.com.br). 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008).  
 
13. 
Indicators” means the impact, performance and implementation indicators agreed 
with the Bank and set forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith, as 
such letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
14. 
“Integrated Modal Tariff or “IMT” means an arrangement between transport 
operators allowing users to be charged a single fare for completing a trip using 
more than one service or mode within a certain period of time, and costing less 
than the sum of individual fares. 
 
15. 
“PDTU” means Plano Director de Transporte Urbano, the urban transport 
master plan for the RJMR, a plan that integrates urban transport, land use and air 
quality management.   
 
16. 
“PMIG” means the Project management unit (Coordenadoria Executiva de 
Gerenciamento e Implantação de Programa/BIRD- CEGIP) referred to in 
Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established pursuant to Resolução 
de Diretoria Executiva No. 0179/07, dated March 28, 2007, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 29, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15
19. 
“RJMR” means Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region, an area comprising the 
following municipalities of the Borrower: (i) Rio de Janeiro; (ii) Belford Roxo; 
(iii) Duque de Caxias; (iv) Guapimirim; (v) Itaboraí; (vi) Itaguaí; (vii) Japeri; 
(viii) Mangaratiba; (ix) Mesquita; (x) Magé; (xi); Nilópolis; (xii) Niterói; (xiii) 
Nova Iguaçu; (xiv) Paracambi; (xv) Queimados; (xvi) São Gonçalo; (xvii) Sao 
Joao de Meriti; (xviii) Seropédica; and (xix) Tanguá.  
 
20. 
“SETRANS” means Secretaria de Estado de Transportes do Rio de Janeiro, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Transport. 
 
21. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” (Instrumento Particular de Contrato Subsidiário ao 
Contrato de Empréstimo Externo) means the agreement to be signed between the 
Borrower, through SETRANS, and CENTRAL as referred to in Section I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
