CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7690 AL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Social Services Delivery Project) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 7, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7690 AL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 7, 2009, between ALBANIA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
1.03. 
All provisions of the Original Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million United States dollars 
($5,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
2
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the PIU in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operations Manual, the EMP, the Procurement Plan and 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
3
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A Project manager has been hired by the PIU, with terms of reference 
and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
The Operations Manual has been updated by the Borrower, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit” 
Tirana, Albania 
 
Facsimile:  
 
355 42 28494 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA 
 
By /s/ Ridvan Bode 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Camille Nuamah 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the standards of living of poor and 
vulnerable population groups in Albania by: (a) increasing their access to effective social 
care services; (b) assisting the Government to develop effective social care policy and 
improve its capacity for delivery and monitoring of social care services; and (c) 
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the pension system in Albania, through (i) 
improving pension system administration; (ii) institutional strengthening including 
improved capacity for pension policy development; and (iii) improving public 
understanding of the pension system. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional part: 
 
Part E:
Pension System Reform
1. 
Administrative reform of the pension system through the provision of goods and 
services and the carrying out of civil works, including:  
 
(a) 
the review of SII’s strategic plan and development of a business plan; 
 
(b) 
the review of SII’s existing business processes and design of new such 
processes; 
 
(c) 
the design and development of software to support new SII business 
processes, including training of SII staff thereon; 
 
(d) 
the development and implementation of a comprehensive financial 
management system for SII, including: (i) a transparent accounting system in accordance 
with international accounting standards; (ii) improved budgeting processes; and (iii) the 
establishment of an overall internal control program; 
 
(e) 
training of SII managerial staff in new management practices, planning, 
communication and process analysis; 
 
(f) 
the design and implementation of data protection and security systems 
for SII; and  
 
(g) 
the carrying out of civil works for the renovation and physical 
rehabilitation of selected existing SII central and regional offices. 
 
2. 
Development of the Central Registry of Contributors and Beneficiaries, through 
the provision of goods and services, including: 
 
6
(a) 
the full digitalization of records of past work histories; 
 
(b) 
setting up an archive system of contributions and benefits history to 
facilitate benefit awards; 
 
(c) 
the development of a new reporting system on pension contributions; 
 
(d) 
the development of an integrated software system for the management of 
said Registry; 
 
(e) 
the development of an information technology network among SII’s 
regional offices, SII’s headquarters, and other key institutions; and 
 
(f) 
office furniture for said Registry’s offices. 
 
3. 
Capacity building for pension policy development, through the provision of 
goods and services for the establishment of a unit charged with pension policy analysis 
and identification within SII, including: 
 
(a) 
conducting an analysis of parametric and systemic pension system 
reform options; and 
 
(b) 
the development of the legal and regulatory framework for the selected 
pension system reform options. 
 
4. 
Public education on the pension system, through the provision of goods and 
services, including:  
 
(a) 
the preparation and carrying out of a public opinion survey; 
 
(b) 
the development of an internal and external communication strategy; 
 
(c) 
the development of a public education campaign; and 
 
(d) 
the organization of various public education events and workshops. 
 
5. 
Project management and implementation support, through the provision of 
services to, and the financing of Incremental Operating Costs of the PIU. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the PIU, which shall be headed 
by a Project manager, under the overall supervision of SII’s Deputy Director. The Project 
manager shall be responsible for the overall Project management and implementation 
and, together with the PIU, shall be in charge of procurement, financial management, 
planning, coordination, monitoring, reporting, evaluation and environmental and social 
aspects of the Project. The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, 
maintain the PIU with sufficient resources and qualified staff in adequate numbers, 
including a Project manager and procurement and financial management specialists on 
the basis of qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Implementation Covenants  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operations Manual, the EMP and the Procurement Plan. The Borrower shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said Manual, EMP or Plan without 
the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Part E.1 (g) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
civil works: (a) are carried out only on existing SII central and regional offices, the land 
of which is duly registered with the Borrower’s Immoveable Property Registration Office 
and the public ownership of which is certified; and (b) do not entail land acquisition or 
any involuntary resettlement as defined in the World Bank’s Operational Policy 4.12. No 
civil works shall be carried out unless the Borrower shall have first: (a) ensured that the 
EMP checklist applies to each bidding document and constitutes an integral part of each 
contract in relation to said works; and (b) sought the Bank’s prior approval for each site 
proposed for said works. 
3. 
The Borrower shall, not later than January 31 of each year, secure allocations in 
the annual SII budget adequate for each year of Project implementation. 
4. 
The Borrower shall, not later than March 1, 2010, establish, and thereafter 
maintain, throughout the duration of the Project, an actuarial department within SII, with 
8
adequate resources, qualified staff in sufficient numbers and on the basis of terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
5. 
The Borrower shall cause SII to, not later than September 30, 2009, enter into an 
agreement with the Tax Department, including a timetable and a protocol, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the provision of contribution data in electronic form from the Tax 
Department to the SII. 
6. 
The Borrower, through the SII, shall, not later than June 1, 2010, establish and 
thereafter maintain an internal financial management system for SII, including a 
computerized accounting and reporting system, satisfactory to the Bank.  
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the SII, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the SII, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
9
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the modifications and additions set 
 
forth in paragraph 3 below. 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting  
 
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower’s National Competitive Bidding Procedures. 
The National Competitive Bidding procedures shall be based on the Open Tendering 
procedures as defined in the Public Procurement Law of Albania (Law no. 9643 dated 
November 20, 2006, as amended), and the following additional provisions: 
10
(i) 
"Open Tendering" procedures as defined in the Public Procurement Law 
of Albania shall apply to all contracts; 
(ii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process. 
Government-owned enterprises in Albania shall be permitted to bid only 
if they are legally and financially autonomous and operate under 
commercial law of the Borrower; 
(iii) 
procuring entities shall use sample bidding documents approved by the 
Bank; 
(iv) 
in case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all bids 
shall not be rejected without the prior concurrence of the Bank; 
(v) 
a single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of bids; 
(vi) 
post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest evaluated 
bidder; no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid opening on 
qualification grounds; 
(vii) 
bidders who contract as a joint venture shall be held jointly and severally 
liable; 
(viii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially 
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform in 
accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria;  
(ix) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders; and 
(x) 
contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain 
appropriate price adjustment provisions. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
11
Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c) Fixed budget method 
 
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(e) Single source selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(1)  Goods and works under 
 
Part E of the Project 
 
4,557,500 
80% 
(2)  Consultants’ services and 
 
Training under Part E of the 
 
Project 
 400,000 
100% 
12
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 
(3)  Incremental Operating 
 
Costs under Part E.5 of the 
 
Project 
 
30,000 
100% 
(4)  Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and  Caps and 
 
Interest Rate Collars  
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.07(c) 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(5)  Front-end Fee 
12,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
5,000,000 
 
For the purposes of this Section IV, “Training” means any training of SII staff, conducted 
for the purposes of achieving the objectives of the Project and including the following 
expenses, in each case related to training only and in accordance with the annual training 
and study tour plan to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank: purchase, 
printing and publication of materials; stationary; workshop fees; rental of facilities such 
as translation equipment, premises on which training is to take place; course fees; 
advertisement for translation purposes; transportation and travel; subsistence of staff 
participating in the training (including per diem allowances).  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2012. 
 
13
SCHEDULE 3 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2019  
 
through September 15, 2033 
 
3.33% 
 
On March 15, 2034 
3.43% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
14
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
15
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Central Registry of Contributors and Beneficiaries” means the central registry of 
pension contributors and beneficiaries established and operating within SII (as 
this term is hereinafter defined). 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated March 8, 2008, 
prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, including an 
environmental management plan checklist and setting out the environmental 
mitigation measures required for the minor civil works to be carried out under 
Part E.1(g) of the Project. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental expenses incurred by the PIU 
(as this term is hereinafter defined) on account of Project management and 
implementation, including the costs of translation, communication, printing and 
supplies, local travel costs and utilities, but excluding civil servants’ salaries. 
 
8. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual dated November 21, 2002, adopted by 
the Borrower for the Original Project (as this term is hereinafter defined) and to 
be updated by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, setting forth the implementation rules and procedures for the 
Original Project (as this term is hereinafter defined) and the Project. 
 
9. 
“Original Agreement” means the development credit agreement for the Social 
Services Delivery Project between the Borrower and the International 
Development Association, dated July 3, 2001, as amended (Credit number 3513 - 
ALB). 
16
10. 
“Original Project” means the project described in the Original Agreement. 
 
11. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established by the Borrower 
under the Original Agreement and maintained within SII (as this term is 
hereinafter defined). 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 10, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“SII” means the Social Insurance Institute, the Borrower’s special fund, under the 
supervision of its Minister of Finance, responsible for the administration of the 
Borrower’s social insurance system, established by Decision No. 249 of the 
Council of Ministers, dated June 5, 1992. 
 
15. 
“Tax Department” means the tax department within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance, responsible for the administration of tax procedures, established and 
operating pursuant to Decision No. 8560 of the Council of Ministers, dated 
December 22, 1999.  
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
17
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
