CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7748-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Haryana Power System Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 17, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 17, 2009, between INDIA (the “Borrower”)  
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the “Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred thirty million Dollars 
($330,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are August 1 and February 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause Haryana to cause HVPN and DHBVN (pursuant to 
the Project Agreements) to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the 
respective Project Agreements. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
3
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the HVPN 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the DHBVN Subsidiary Loan Agreement have 
been executed on behalf of Haryana and HVPN, and Haryana and DHBVN, 
respectively. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: the HVPN Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and the DHBVN Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been duly 
authorized or ratified by Haryana and HVPN, and Haryana and DHBVN, 
respectively, and are legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with 
their terms. 
 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is any of the following: the Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, India 
 
Facsimile: 
 
91-11-23092477 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Facsimile: 
 
1-202-477-6391 
 
4
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/  Anup K. Pujari  
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/  N. Roberto Zagha 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the availability, efficiency and 
accountability of electricity supply in Haryana through strengthening the transmission 
and distribution systems. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Component 1. Transmission System Strengthening (HVPN) 
 
Priority investments in 400 kV, 220 kV, 132 kV and 66kV sub-stations together 
with transmission lines for system augmentation.  
Component 2. Urban Distribution System Strengthening (DHBVN) 
 
Improvement of distribution infrastructure and systems in the towns of Charki 
Dadri, Faridabad, and Gurgaon, through: (a) conversion of feeder network to 
High Voltage Distribution System to reduce technical and commercial losses; (b) 
bifurcation of overloaded 11 kV feeders to better distribute load across feeders 
and improve quality of supply;  (c) segregation of industrial feeders to improve 
supply quality and accountability; (d) construction of new 33 kV sub-station to 
respond to increased demand in the town of Dadri; (e) establishment and 
operation of customer care centers; and (f) provision of Advanced Metering 
Infrastructure across the utility for all the non-high tension consumers having a 
connected load of 10 kW and above. 
Component 3. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building (HVPN and DHBVN) 
 
Technical assistance to HVPN and DHBVN to: (a) strengthen their institutional 
capacity, including, but not limited to, corporate governance and financial 
management, through process improvements, organization changes, human 
resource development and use of technology; and (b) assist in their 
implementation, management and monitoring of their Respective Parts under 
Components 1 and 2 of the Project. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation, Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to Haryana in a timely manner, on the same financial terms 
and conditions as apply to the Borrower under this Agreement, and shall ensure 
that Haryana make such funds available to HVPN under a subsidiary loan 
agreement (HNPN Subsidiary Loan Agreement), and to DHBVN under a 
subsidiary loan agreement (DHBVN Subsidiary Loan Agreement), both on the 
same financial terms as apply to the Borrower and Haryana, and other terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the provisions set forth in the 
Project Agreements. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
terms of this Agreement, and shall cause Haryana to cause HVPN and DHBVN 
to take all necessary steps to ensure that all Project activities for which they are 
responsible pursuant to the terms of the Project Agreements are implemented in 
accordance with the Schedule to such Project Agreements.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.   
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower, through Haryana, HVPN and DHBVN, shall monitor and evaluate 
the progress of the Project and cause Haryana, HVPN and DHBVN to prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one Financial Year quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.   
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
7
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Financial Year, 
commencing with the Financial Year in which the first withdrawal under the 
Project was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause Haryana to ensure (pursuant to the Project 
Agreements), that HVPN and DHBVN  prepare and furnish to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each Financial Year quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for their Respective Parts under the Project, covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Works.
All works (supply and installation) required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, works (supply and installation) shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
8
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, and the additional provisions agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank 
(b) 
Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)   Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)   Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)   Single-Source Selection 
(e)   Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f)   Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by  
the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
9
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Works (supply and 
installation) for Component 1 
of the Project 
 
(2)  Works (supply and 
installation) for Component 2 
of the Project 
 
(3)  Consultants’ Services and 
Training for Component 3 of 
the Project  
 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
 
250,000,000 
 
70,000,000 
 
9,175,000 
 
825,000 
 
80% 
 
80% 
 
100%  
 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
330,000,000 
 
10 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $66,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2009 for 
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) through (3). 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
11 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 1 and August 1 
 
Beginning February 1, 2015 
 
through August 1, 2039 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
12 
 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
13 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“DHBVN” means Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, a public limited 
company 
registered 
under 
the 
Companies 
Act 
of 
1956 
(CIN 
U99999HR1999PLC034165, March 15, 1999), and wholly owned by the 
Government of Haryana, or any successor or successors thereto. 
5. 
“DHBVN Operations Manual” means the manual approved by DHBVN in June, 
2009, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets out the operational rules and 
procedures governing HVPN implementation of Component 2 and its Respective 
Part of Component 3 of the Project, including institutional, governance and 
accountability, operational, financial, disbursement, procurement, monitoring, 
evaluation, reporting,  and environmental, social and safeguard provisions, and 
includes the Financial Management Arrangements, ESPP, EMPs, RAPs, SIPs 
and DPRs, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the mutual 
consent of the Bank and DHBVN. 
6. 
“DHBVN Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement between Haryana 
and DHBVN, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets out the terms and conditions 
under which Haryana shall provide the proceeds of Loan to DHBVN, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time with the prior consent of the Bank. 
7. 
“DPR” means specific detailed Project report adopted or to be adopted by 
DHBVN for each scheme under Component 2 of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Bank, which sets out technical, procurement, financial, environmental and social 
safeguard information related to the scheme, and includes the EMP and RAP (as 
necessary), as such plan may be amended from time to time with the mutual 
consent of the Bank and DHBVN. 
8. 
“EMP” means scheme-specific environmental management plan adopted or to be 
adopted by the HVPN and/or DHBVN (as the case may be) pursuant to the 
provisions of ESPP and the respective Project Agreement, and satisfactory to the 
14 
 
Bank, which sets out scheme-specific environmental management, mitigation, 
monitoring and reporting measures to be undertaken by the HVPN or DHBVN, 
as appropriate, during the Project, as such plan may be amended from time to 
time with the mutual  consent of the Bank and HVPN and/or DHBVN (as the 
case may be), and “EMPs” means two or more of such plans.  
9. 
“ESPP” means the Environmental and Social Policy and Procedures adopted by 
HVPN and DHBVN on July 29, 2008 and July 11, 2009 (respectively), which 
sets forth the environmental and social safeguards applicable to the Project, 
including identification, assessment and mitigation of potential environmental 
and social impacts arising from carrying our Project activities, measures to 
protect cultural property, proposed management and mitigation measures and the 
relevant institutional arrangements, as such document may be revised from time 
to time with the mutual consent of the Bank and HVPN and/or DHBVN (as the 
case may be). 
10. 
“Financial Management Arrangements” means the arrangements for Project fund 
flow, accounting policies and procedures, chart of accounts, books of accounts, 
financial reporting, and internal controls. 
11. 
“Financial Year” means the Borrower’s financial year beginning April 1 and 
ending March 31 the following year. 
12. 
“GAAP” means the governance and accountability action plan adopted by each 
HVPN and DHBVN, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets out the key actions to 
be undertaken by HVPN and DHBVN to strengthen governance, transparency, 
and accountability under the Project, as such plan may be amended from time to 
time with the mutual consent of the Bank and HVPN and/or DHBVN (as the case 
may be). 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
14. 
“Haryana” means the State of Haryana of the Borrower, or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
15. 
“HVPN” means Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited, a public limited 
company 
registered 
under 
the 
Companies 
Act 
of 
1956 
(CIN 
U40101HR1997PLC033863, dated August 14, 1998), and wholly owned by the 
Government of Haryana, or any successor or successors thereto. 
16. 
“HVPN Operations Manual” means the manual approved by HVPN on  
April 1, 2009, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets out the operational rules and 
15 
 
procedures governing HVPN implementation of Component 1 and its Respective 
Part of Component 3 of the Project, including institutional, governance and 
accountability, operational, financial, disbursement, procurement, monitoring, 
evaluation, reporting,  and environmental, social and safeguard provisions, and 
includes the Financial Management Arrangements, ESPP, EMPs, RAPs, SIPs, 
and DPRs, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the mutual 
consent of the Bank and HVPN. 
17. 
“HVPN Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement between Haryana 
and HVPN, satisfactory to the Bank, which sets out the terms and conditions 
under which Haryana shall provide the proceeds of Loan to HVPN, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time with the prior consent of the Bank. 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, satisfactory to 
the Bank, which consists of the HVPN Procurement Plan adopted or agreed upon 
by HVPN for its Respective Parts under the Project, dated June 19, 2009, and the 
DHBVN Procurement Plan adopted or agreed upon by DHBVN for its 
Respective Parts under the Project, dated June 19, 2009, and referred to in 
paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
20. 
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan adopted or to be adopted by HVPN 
and DHBVN, satisfactory to the Bank, which set forth resettlement, social, land 
acquisition, and tribal communities rehabilitation and assistance actions to be 
undertaken by the HVPN or DHBVN for their Respective Parts under the 
Project, as such plans may be revised from time to time with the mutual consent 
of the Bank and HVPN and/or DHBVN (as the case may be), and “RAPs” means 
two or more of such plans. 
21. 
“SIP” means scheme implementation plan adopted or to be adopted by the HVPN 
for each scheme under Component 1 of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, 
which sets out technical, procurement, financial, environmental and social 
safeguard information related to the scheme, and includes the EMP and RAP, as 
such plan may be amended from time to time with the mutual consent of the 
Bank and HVPN and/or DHBVN (as the case may be). 
22. 
“Training” means reasonable and necessary costs of training related to Project 
implementation, including the fees of educational or other institutions that 
provide training, costs related to attendance or organization of conferences, 
16 
 
seminars, study tours and workshops, and the trainees’ cost of travel, boarding, 
lodging and per diem allowances. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
