CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7688-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(São Paulo State Feeder Roads Project- Programa de Pavimentação  
e Recuperação de Estradas Vicinais do Estado de São Paulo)
between 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 24, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7688-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 24, 2009, between the STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $166,650,000 (one hundred sixty six 
million six hundred fifty thousand Dollars), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in partially 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Borrower’s Transport Secretariat.
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor and through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National 
Treasury,   request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the 
Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of 
the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; 
and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
carry out Part 2.A of the Project through SEP and Part 2.C of the Project 
through ST, all under the coordination of SEP;  
 
3
(b) 
cause Parts 1  and 2.D of the Project  to be carried out by DER-SP; and 
 
(c) 
for purposes of joint implementation by SMA and CETESB of Part 2.B 
of the Project: (i) carry out Part 2.B of the Project through SMA; and (ii) 
cause Part 2.B of the Project to be carried out by CETESB, ensuring at 
all times that SMA and CETESB carry out their responsibilities under 
Part 2.B of the Project with mutual collaboration between SMA and 
CETESB, all under the coordination of SEP.   
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
DER-SP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement to an extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, 
would materially and adversely affect the achievement of the Project 
objective. 
 
(b) 
CETESB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Technical Cooperation Agreement to an extent that, in the opinion of the 
Bank, would materially and adversely affect the achievement of the 
Project objective, and the Borrower has not assumed such obligations. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
Any event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 90 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and 
DER-SP. 
 
(b)  
the Technical Cooperation Agreement has been signed on behalf of the 
Borrower, CETESB and DER-SP.  
4
5.02. The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and DER-SP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
DER-SP in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Technical Cooperation Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by DER-SP and CETESB and is legally binding upon DER-SP 
and CETESB in accordance with its terms. 
 
(c) 
The Loan has been validly registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
which expire on January 10, 2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Governor.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda  
 
Avenida Rangel Pestana, 300 – 5º andar  
 
São Paulo – SP 
 
CEP: 01017-911 
 
Facsimile: (55-11-3243 3296) 
 
With copies to: 
 
Secretaria de Economia e Planejamento 
 
Avenida Morumbi, 4500 – sala 159   
 
Morumbi, Sao Paulo - SP 
 
CEP: 05650- 905  
 
Facsimile: (55-11-2193 8658) 
 
Secretaria do Meio Ambiente 
 
Av. Prof. Frederico Hermann Jr., 345, Prédio 1, 5º andar 
 
Alto de Pinheiros, São Paulo –SP 
 
CEP: 05459-900 
 
Facsimile: (55-11-3133 3345) 
5
Secretaria dos Transportes 
 
Rua Iaia, 126 
 
Itaim Bibi, São Paulo – SP 
 
CEP:  04543-906 
 
Facsimile: (55-11-3702 8160) 
 
Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental 
 
Av. Prof. Frederico Hermann Jr., 345, Prédio 1, 9º andar   
 
Alto de Pinheiros, São Paulo –SP 
 
CEP: 05459-900 
 
Facsimile: (55-11-3133 3083) 
 
Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem 
 
Av. do Estado, 777, 3º andar 
 
Ponte Pequena, São Paulo – SP 
 
CEP: 01107-000 
 
Facsimile: (55-11-3311 1409) 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
6
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
By /s/ José Serra 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Elizabeth Adu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
7
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s paved 
municipal road network. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1: Feeder Roads Rehabilitation
(a) 
Carrying out of rehabilitation works on approximately 100 km of the 
Borrower’s paved road sections, and 1,500 km of particular sections of the Borrower’s 
municipal paved road network that have been identified as eligible road sections under 
the 3 first phases of the Pró-Vicinais Program including, inter alia: (i) rehabilitation of 
existing road bases and surfaces, as well as of bridges; (ii) rehabilitation and/or surfacing 
of shoulders to protect the shoulders’ surfaces from erosion and improve the driving 
conditions; (iii) upgrading of drainage systems and signalization; and (iv) road safety 
improvements, including localized curve realignments and critical spots elimination. 
 (b) 
consolidating DER-SP’s capacity to manage its road investment 
programs, including the Pró-Vicinais Program.  
 
Part 2: Institutional Strengthening
A.  
Strengthening of SEP’s institutional capacity to manage the State 
Investments Program, through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment for, inter alia: (i) the structuring and initial operation of a monitoring and 
evaluation system of the State Investments Program; (ii) the definition of a methodology 
to identify and prioritize projects potentially attractive to the private sector; (iii) the 
preparation and structuring of projects with private sector participation; (iv) the carrying 
out of improvements to SEP’s capacity in obtaining external financing (including from 
multilateral agencies); and (v) the elaboration of a strategy for communication with key 
stakeholders under the State Investments Program, including federal and municipal 
governments, private sector and civil society. 
 
B. 
Strengthening of SMA’s and CETESB’s institutional capacity to support 
the modernization of the Borrower’s environmental management system, through the 
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for, inter alia: (i) the definition 
and implementation of the structure of the Borrower’s unified environmental 
management organizational structure (licenciamento unificado) and related processes; 
and (ii) the integration, modernization and expansion of related information management 
systems, including geo-referenced monitoring.  
8
C. 
Strengthening of ST’s institutional and planning capacity to support the 
Borrower’s transport sector, through the provision of technical assistance for, inter alia:
(i) the carrying out of a study of transport demand for general cargo, including 
elaboration of the study’s methodology and surveys with research on specific logistics 
chains; (ii) the identification and selection of public and private sector actions on the 
demand side to motivate an optimized use of existing transport infrastructure and 
services; and (iii) the structuring of a methodology to assess economic and social impacts 
of road investment programs.   
 
D. 
Strengthening of DER-SP’s institutional capacity to support the 
Borrower’s road sector, through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment for, inter alia: (i) consolidating DER-SP’s pavement management system, 
structuring a bridge management system and monitoring road conditions and traffic level 
data; (ii) increasing the technical capacity of DER-SP staff; (iii) structuring of traffic 
monitoring systems; (iv) managing and monitoring environmental and social impacts of 
road investment programs, and providing technical support to municipalities in 
environmental management and monitoring of civil works; and (v) supporting municipalities 
in defining and implementing mechanisms for sustainable maintenance of municipal 
networks. 
9
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution and until completion of the 
Project: 
 
(a)  
maintain a unit within SEP to be responsible for the coordination and 
monitoring of Parts 2.A, 2.B and 2.C of the Project (the “SEP PCU”), 
such unit to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, as 
well as staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b)  
cause DER-SP to maintain a unit to be responsible for the 
implementation and coordination of Parts 1 and 2.D of the Project (the 
“DER-SP PCU”) and for carrying out all procurement, fiduciary, 
administrative and reporting responsibilities for all activities under the 
Project. The DER-SP PCU shall have a structure, functions and staff 
acceptable to the Bank, as defined in the Operation Manual, and shall be 
headed at all times by a coordinator with qualifications, experience, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement and Technical Cooperation Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Parts 1 and 2.D of the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into a subsidiary agreement with DER-SP, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank (the “Subsidiary Agreement”), which shall include, inter 
alia, the obligation of the Borrower to make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
DER-SP and DER-SP’s obligation to carry out its responsibilities under the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, procurement, auditing, environmental and social 
standards and practices.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
10 
3. 
To facilitate the carrying out Part 2.B of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into 
an agreement with CETESB and DER-SP, under terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Bank (the “Technical Cooperation Agreement”), which shall include, inter 
alia, CETESB’s obligation to carry out its responsibilities under Part 2.B of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, procurement, auditing, environmental and social 
standards and practices.  
 
4. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Technical Cooperation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the Technical Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
C. 
Operational Manual 
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the “Operational Manual”), which shall detail the 
procedures and guidelines for the execution, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including, inter alia:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the technical, procurement, disbursement, financial 
management, social and environmental requirements thereof);  
 
(b) 
the eligibility criteria for civil works under Part 1 of the Project; 
 
(c) 
the Indicators to be used for Project monitoring and evaluation; 
 
(d)  
the functions, responsibilities, structure and key staff composition of the 
SEP PCU and the DER-SP PCU; and 
 
(e) 
the Environmental Assessment and the Involuntary Resettlement 
Framework.  
 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In case of any conflict or inconsistency between the 
terms of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
D. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause the Project to be carried out, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
11 
E. 
Environmental and Social Provisions 
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall carry out and shall cause DER-SP to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the 
Environmental Assessment (including provisions regarding chance finding and 
protection of cultural property) and the Involuntary Resettlement Framework, 
when applicable.  
 
2.  
Prior to carrying out any civil works under Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall cause DER-SP to submit to the Bank evidence that environmental and 
social impacts have been identified and planned mitigation measures defined, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Assessment and the 
Involuntary Resettlement Framework, as applicable. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to ensure that any contractors that will carry 
out civil works under Part 1 of the Project shall perform their work in accordance 
with the technical and environmental practices for the Project, as set forth in the 
Environmental Assessment. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP, with the assistance of SEP, SMA, CETESB 
and ST for their Respective Parts of the Project, to monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
Indicators included in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than two months after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SEP and DER-SP, shall, not later than June 30 of each 
year of Project implementation, review with the Bank the progress in the carrying 
out of their respective responsibilities of Part 2 of the Project during the 
preceding twelve-month period, and the need to add or eliminate the activities 
included therein, in order to achieve the objective of said Part 2 of the Project.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to, at the earliest of: (a) September 30, 2011; 
or (b) the point when fifty percent (50%) of the Loan amount has been disbursed, 
carry out a review with the Bank on the overall progress in the execution of the 
Project, and set out the measures and take any remedial action as a result of such 
review, as agreed with the Bank. 
 
12 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of 
the Project Reports, not later than two months after the end of each calendar 
semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DER-SP to have the Project’s Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period. 
4. 
The Borrower shall, through SEP, SMA and ST for their Respective Parts of the 
Project to, provide (and, in the case of Part 2.B of the Project, cause CETESB to 
provide) DER-SP with all such information as DER-SP shall request for the 
purposes of complying with paragraphs 1 to 3 of Section II.B above.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works and Non-consultant Services.   All goods, works and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
13 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works and Non-consultant 
services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works and 
non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used.  
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, including in respect of goods, works and 
 
non-consultant services, convite, tomada de preços and concorrencia (set 
 
forth in the Guarantor’s Law no. 8.666 of June 21, 1993), pregão eletrônico 
(set forth in the Guarantor’s Law no, 10520 of July 17, 2002), under 
 
‘COMPRASNET’, the procurement portal of the Guarantor, or any other e-
 
procurement system approved by the Bank, subject to the following 
 
additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall be 
 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods, pregão eletrônico set forth in the 
 
Guarantor’s Law No. 10520, of July 17, 2002).  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS)  
(b) Least-Cost Selection (LCS) 
(c) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2. and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Single-Source Selection (SSS) 
14 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  (a) each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000,000 or more; (b) each contract for 
goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or 
more; and (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the General Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
inclusive of tax
(1) Works, Non-consultant 
 
services and Consultant 
 
services for Part 1 of 
 
the Project 
 
145,000,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, Non-consultant 
 
services, Training and 
 
Consultant services for 
 
Part 2 of the Project  
 
12,000,000 
 
100% 
(3) Unallocated 
 
9,233,375 
 
15 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
inclusive of tax
(4) Front-end Fee 
416,625  
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 
(b) 
of 
the 
General 
Conditions 
 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of the this 
Agreement  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
166,650,000 
 
For purposes of this table, the term: 
 
(a)  
“Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project and directly 
related to training activities described in the Project, including, inter alia, costs 
related to workshops, seminars, conferences, study tours, training registration 
fees, facility and equipment rentals, and local travel costs and per diems;
(b) 
“Non-consultant services” means reasonable expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower for services under Part 1 (b) and Part 2 of the Project related, inter alia,
to data collection services. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $58,000,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments made within one year prior to this date but in no case before April 
1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
Within six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause DER-SP to 
sign the contract, satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of the external financial audit 
referred to in Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
16 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15,  
 
Beginning November 15, 2014  
 
through May 15, 2039 
 
2.00% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
17 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
18 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“CETESB” means Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental, the 
Borrower’s technology and environmental sanitation agency responsible for 
controlling the quality of the environment in the Borrower’s territory, created 
through Law No.118 of June 29, 1973 and published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette N° 122, page 5, as amended to the date of this Agreement, or its 
successor or successors thereto. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“DER-SP” means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem, the Borrower’s road 
administration department responsible for managing the Borrower’s road 
network, regulated by the Borrower’s Decree No.  26.673 of January 28, 1987 
and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette N° 19, as amended to the date 
of this Agreement, or its successor or successors thereto. 
 
6. 
“DER-SP PCU” means Unidade de Coordenação do Programa, the unit referred 
to in Section I.A.1 (b) of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, established pursuant to 
the Portaria SUP/DER No.33, dated April 2, 2008 and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 118, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s assessment, dated February, 
2008, of the Project environmental impacts, which identifies the existing 
environmental conditions and the potential direct and indirect environmental 
impacts from the carrying out of the Project, and recommends mitigation 
measures for each negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing 
each identified positive impact. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
19 
9. 
“Indicators” means the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project, agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
10. 
“Involuntary Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s document dated 
February 2008, specifying the population resettlement policies, planning principles, 
institutional arrangements, procurement arrangements and design criteria that shall 
apply to the preparation and carrying out of the action plans for the resettlement of 
population under the Project. 
 
11. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, dated February, 2nd 2009, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.   
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 27th 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Pro-Vicinais Program” means Programa de Pavimentação e Recuperação de 
Estradas Vicinais do Estado de São Paulo, the Borrower’s municipal paved road 
program created in 2007 for the rehabilitation of approximately 12.000 km of the 
Borrower’s municipal paved road network.  
 
15. 
“SEP” means Secretaria de Economia e Planejamento do Estado de São Paulo,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of Economy and Planning. 
 
16. 
“SEP-PCU” means Unidade de Coordenação de Projeto, the unit referred to in 
Section I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, established within SEP 
pursuant to Resolução SEP Nº 1, dated January 23, 2009 and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette of January 27, 2009. 
 
17. 
“SMA” means Secretaria do Meio Ambiente do Estado de São Paulo, the 
Borrower’s Environment Secretariat. 
 
18. 
“ST” means Secretaria dos Transportes do Estado de São Paulo, the Borrower’s 
Transport Secretariat. 
 
19. 
“State Investments Program”, means the Borrower’s investments included under 
the 2008-2011 PPA (Plano Plurianual para o periodo 2008-2011), the 
Borrower’s multiyear expenditure program for 2008-2011. 
 
20 
20. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to DER-SP. 
 
21. 
“Technical Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
I.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant, to which the Borrower shall 
implement Part 2.B of the Project. 
 
