CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7568-BW 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(National HIV/AIDS Prevention Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 29, 2009
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7568-BW 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 29, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set  
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars  
(USD 50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the  
General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion  
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, under the overall coordination and 
facilitation of NACA, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions  
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  
(a)  
The 
Borrower’s 
Presidential 
Directive 
Cab 
32/99, 
dated  
 
December 14, 1999, pertaining to NACA or its operation, shall have 
 
been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
 
materially and adversely its ability to implement the Project or perform 
 
any of its obligations under this Agreement; and 
(b)  
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration shall be that any event specified in  
Section 4.01 of this Agreement has occurred. 
3
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
NACA has recruited the following technical specialists for the Project, in 
accordance with the requirements of Section III of Schedule 2 of  
this Agreement: (i) a management and implementation specialist; (ii) a 
financial management specialist; (iii) a procurement specialist; and (iv) a 
Health District-level grant officer in each Phase I Health District, in each 
case with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory  
to the Bank.  
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
 
the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister at the time responsible for finance 
and development planning.   
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning 
Government Enclave 
Khama Crescent 
Block 25 
State Drive 
Gaborone 
Botswana 
Facsimile: 
(267) 395 6086 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Gaborone, Republic of Botswana, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA 
 
By: /s/ Baledzi Gaolathe 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Ruth Kagia 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing the coverage, 
efficiency and sustainability of targeted and evidence-based HIV/AIDS interventions  
by: (a) strengthening NACA’s institutional management and coordination capacity; and 
(b) financing strategic and innovative HIV/AIDS-related prevention and mitigation 
activities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time: 
Part A: 
 
Support to NACA
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of NACA in coordinating the Project 
activities, through, inter alia, hiring of senior staff to provide technical support 
for NACA, carrying out of training for NACA’s staff and CSOs, and carrying out 
of studies focusing on social aspects of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
2. 
Supporting the development and strengthening of the Borrower’s national 
monitoring and evaluation framework related to HIV/AIDS.  
Part B: 
Beneficiary Ministries
Supporting the development and implementation of Beneficiary Ministries’ annual work 
plans related to HIV/AIDS, including those of: (a) the MOE, focusing on teachers  
and 
in-school 
youths; 
(b) 
the 
MLHA, 
focusing 
on 
prison 
staff 
and  
prisoners; (c) the MLG, focusing on community level stakeholders, including orphans 
and vulnerable children, as well as out of school youths; (d) the MWT, focusing on 
mobile and highly vulnerable populations; (e) the MYSC, focusing on ministerial staff 
and out of school youths; and (f) the MOH, focusing on enhancing efficiency of the  
anti-retroviral therapy treatment. 
Part C: 
Civil Society Organizations/Private Sector
Carrying out of Subprojects that prioritize specific HIV/AIDS prevention results. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
NACA shall implement Part A of the Project and shall also have responsibility 
for the overall coordination and facilitation of the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
Project Steering Committee
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
maintain the Project Steering Committee with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank, chaired by the NACA national 
coordinator and comprised of representatives from the MFDP, MOH, 
MLG, NACA, MOE, United Nations technical agencies and Non-State 
Actors, to be responsible for providing strategic direction and oversight 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
ensure that the Project Steering Committee meets at least twice per  
 
Fiscal Year. 
3. 
Technical Sub-Committee
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
maintain the Technical Sub-Committee with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank, chaired by the NACA national 
coordinator and comprised of representatives from the MOH, MLG, 
NACA, MOE, United Nations technical agencies and Non-State Actors, 
to be responsible for reviewing the financial and technical viability of 
Subproject proposals, designing the monitoring and evaluation 
framework and addressing strategic implementation and coordination 
issues under the Project; and 
(b) 
ensure that the Technical Sub-Committee meets at least twice per Fiscal 
 
Year. 
4. 
DMSAC
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution of the Project, maintain the 
DMSAC in each Health District with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank, to coordinate the implementation of HIV/AIDS 
activities under the Project at the Health District level. 
7
5. 
NACA
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
maintain NACA with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory  
to the Bank, to implement Part A of the Project, as well as to function as 
the overall coordinator and facilitator of Project implementation at all 
levels; and 
(b) 
ensure that NACA maintains the following committees, with functions, 
membership and resources satisfactory to the Bank, as set out in the 
Operational Manual and which, inter alia, shall include the following: 
(i)  
a Programs Committee, to be mainly responsible for reviewing, 
assessing and recommending Subprojects proposals, plans and 
activities to be submitted to the Project  Steering Committee and 
the Technical Sub-Committee; 
(ii)  
a Finance, Administration and Audit Committee, to be mainly 
responsible for: (1) reviewing and recommending to NACA 
expenditure estimates and budgeting activities for the  
Project; (2) ensuring that management of financial resources, 
including, without limitation, proceeds of the Loan, are well 
managed and accounted for at both the national and Health 
District levels; (3) facilitating disbursements to individual 
Beneficiaries; 
(4) 
facilitating 
communications 
between 
committee members, auditors and staff; (5) establishing 
procedures to handle complaints on accounting and auditing 
matters; and (6) ensuring prompt submission of the Project 
annual audit; and  
(iii) 
a 
Procurement 
Committee, 
to 
be 
mainly 
responsible  
for: (1) undertaking procurement activities for activities 
implemented under Part A of the Project; (2) supporting the 
Beneficiary Ministries in carrying out procurement or 
undertaking procurement for them as necessary, as the case  
may be, for activities implemented under Part B of the Project; 
and (3) reviewing and verifying the compliance of all 
procurement activities under the Project with policies and 
procedures agreed with the Bank, including those specified 
under Section III of this Schedule  2 . 
6. 
Beneficiary Ministries
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution of the Project, maintain 
each of the Beneficiary Ministries with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for implementing activities under Part 
B of the Project under the overall coordination of NACA. 
8
7. 
District AIDS Coordinator
The Borrower shall, at all times during the execution of the Project, maintain the 
District AIDS Coordinator in each District with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank, comprised of at least representatives from all the 
Beneficiary Ministries and Beneficiaries that are implementers of Project 
activities, to be responsible for coordinating and facilitating implementation of 
Project activities at the District level, including designing the District plans, 
reviewing Subproject proposals, disbursing grants to Beneficiaries and 
monitoring Project implementation progress.  
B. 
Operational Manual 
 
The Borrower, through the overall coordination and facilitation of NACA, shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the arrangements and procedures set out 
in the Operational Manual (provided, however, that in case of any conflict 
between the arrangements and procedures set out in the Operational Manual and 
the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail), 
and shall not amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or any of its 
provisions without prior approval in writing by the Bank. 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Subprojects 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all Subprojects are appraised, approved, 
implemented, and monitored and evaluated, and the Subproject Grants are 
administered in accordance with the eligibility criteria and the administration 
arrangements and procedures set forth or referred to in this Part D and in more 
detail in the Operational Manual. 
2. 
Subproject proposals may be submitted for approval to the District  
AIDS Coordinator by Beneficiaries, by the Technical Sub-Committee on  
its own initiative or by the Programs Committee following consultation with the 
Bank, as the case may be, in every case in accordance with the rules and 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, which Manual sets forth  
details, inter alia, of: (a) eligibility criteria for Beneficiaries and for activities to 
be financed by Subproject Grants; (b) arrangements and procedures for the 
preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation and supervision of activities to 
be financed by Subproject Grants; (c) procurement, financial management and 
disbursement arrangements; (d) performance indicators; (e) standard formats for 
Subproject Grant Agreements; and (f) such other legal, administrative, financial 
and organizational arrangements as shall be required for providing Subproject 
Grants. 
9
4. 
The selected Subprojects must meet the requirements set forth in the Operational 
Manual, including, but not limited to, the Beneficiary having the capacity and 
authority to contract under the laws of the Borrower and to perform the 
obligations stipulated under the relevant Subproject Grant Agreement. 
5. 
Following receipt of the approved Subproject proposal, and prior to the 
disbursement of any Subproject Grant to the relevant Beneficiary, NACA or the 
District AIDS Coordinator, as the case may be, on behalf of the Borrower, shall 
enter into a Subproject Grant Agreement with said Beneficiary, under terms  
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, as set out in the Operational Manual, 
which, inter alia, shall include the following: 
(a) 
a description of the activities to be implemented, including the outputs 
and performance targets to be achieved, and the arrangements for 
monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the Subproject; 
(b) 
the modalities of transfer of funds to the Beneficiary for the financing of 
the Subproject; 
(c) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Subproject in 
accordance with the Operational Manual and the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the 
Borrower, and with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and 
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank; 
(d) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (i) maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject; and (ii) at the 
request of the Bank or the Borrower, have such records audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and 
promptly furnish the records as so audited to the Borrower and the Bank; 
(e) 
the requirement that the goods, non-consultant services and consultants’ 
services to be financed from the proceeds of the Subproject Grant shall 
be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule 2, and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of  
the Subproject; 
(f) 
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank, if 
the Bank shall so request, the goods, sites or plants included in the 
Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
10
(g) 
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial 
management of the Subproject and the Beneficiary; and 
 (h) 
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right  
of the Beneficiary to use or benefit from the use of the proceeds of the 
Subproject Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any  
of its obligations under the Subproject Grant Agreement. 
6. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subproject Grant Agreement  
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and  
to accomplish the purpose of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise  
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of 
any Subproject Grant Agreement. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower  shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project  
 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions  
 
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the 
 
indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each 
 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall 
 
be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the 
 
period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
(i) 
performance assessment of NACA by NACA’s beneficiaries 
under the Project and of technical advisors within NACA during 
the second and fourth year of Project implementation; 
(ii) 
percentage of sexually active male and female reported having 
had sex with more than one (1) partner in the past one (1), two 
(2), six (6) and twelve (12) months (monitor per following age 
groups: between 15 to 19 years of age; between 20 to 24 years of 
age; and between 25 to 49 years of age); 
(iii) 
percentage of youths between 15 to 19 years of age and 20 to 24 
years of age having correctly identified ways of preventing 
sexual transmission of HIV and rejected major misconceptions 
about HIV transmission; 
(iv) 
percentage of youths between 15 to 19 years of age and 20 to 24 
years of age reported having either (1) no sexual activity or (2) 
11
condom use during the last sexual encounter with a non-regular 
partner in the past twelve (12) months; and  
(v) 
percentage of people between 15 to 19 years of age and 20 to 24 
years of age reported having a sexual partner with more than ten 
(10) year age difference during the last twelve (12) months. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
3. 
Annual Assessment
Within the context of the Program, the Borrower shall, in each Fiscal Year during 
the execution of the Project, ensure that NACA, representatives from all 
Beneficiary Ministries and selected Non-State Actors, and the Bank shall carry 
out, by not later than November 30 of each Fiscal Year, a review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project, which review to cover, amongst other  
things: (a) progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and (b) overall 
Project performance against Project performance indicators, in accordance with 
the details set forth in the Operational Manual and paragraph (b) of  Section 
II.A.1 of this Schedule 2. 
4. 
Annual Work Plan
The Borrower shall, in each calendar year during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
within 
the 
context 
of 
the 
Program, 
prepare 
a 
consolidated  
Annual Work Plan for the following year, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, including the list of 
Beneficiary Ministries that will be in charge of the implementation of the 
activities under Part B of the Project for the following year and for which 
the procurement and financial management capacity has been assessed 
and found acceptable by the Bank, for review and approval by the 
Project Steering Committee and the Technical Sub-Committee, following 
which the relevant Annual Work Plan shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than September 30 of each year for its written no objection; and  
(b) 
thereafter carry out the approved Annual Work Plan in such  
following year; all in accordance with the details set forth in the  
Operational Manual. 
5. 
Mid-term review
(a) 
The Borrower shall, no later than November 30, 2011 or any other date 
agreed with the Bank, carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review 
of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The mid-term review 
shall cover, among other things: (i) the progress made in meeting the 
12
objective of the Project; and (ii) the overall performance of the Borrower 
under the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out, no later than one (1) month after the 
completion of the mid-term review referred to in sub-paragraph(a) above, 
the recommendations of the mid-term review as agreed with the Bank. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each quarter of the Fiscal Year, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Non-Consultants’ Services. All goods and non-consultants’ services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
13
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultants’ 
Services  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and non-consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultants’ Services.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-
consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (*) 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Community Participation procedures elaborated in the Procurement Plan and 
in the Operational Manual 
(*) National Competitive Bidding shall follow the Borrower’s procurement 
procedures, provided that the following additional procedures shall apply for the 
use of the Borrower’s National Competitive Bidding documents: (i) foreign 
bidders 
shall 
be 
allowed 
to 
participate 
in 
National 
Competitive  
Bidding; (ii) registration / classification of bidders shall not be used as a 
condition for bidding; (iii) use of preference system based on citizen degree of 
ownership shall not be used; (iv) use of point system and bracketing in the 
evaluation of bids for goods shall not be used; (v) negotiations shall not be held 
with successful bidder for procurement of goods; (vi) publication of invitation to 
bid in a national newspaper of wide circulation; (vii) bidding documents shall 
clearly specify bid evaluation and post qualification criteria; (viii) bidding period 
shall not be less than four (4) weeks and bids shall be opened publicly; and  
(ix) contract awards shall be published.  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
14
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least-Cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(d) Quality-Based Selection 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Single-Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable  
to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures 
as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
15
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods and non-consultants’ 
services 
 6,600,000 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ services  
 7,400,000 
100% 
(3) Training 
 3,600,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, Non-Consultants’ 
Services and Consultants 
Services under Subproject 
Grants 
22,300,000 
 
100% 
(5) Operating Costs 
 8,100,000 
100% 
(6) Unallocated 
 2,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee;   
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date, but on or 
after July 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2); or   
(c) 
under Category (4), until the Borrower has: (i) with respect to any  
Phase I Health District, furnished evidences to the Bank, for its  
approval, that the first twenty (20) Subproject Grants have been made  
in accordance with the eligibility criteria, terms and conditions  
and model form Subproject Grant Agreement set forth or referred to in 
the Operational Manual and the provisions of Section I.D of this 
Schedule 2; and (ii) with respect to any Phase II Health District, until the 
16
Financial Management Assessment has been completed and the Bank has 
determined that the relevant Phase II Health District financial 
management arrangements are acceptable. 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall have 
ensured that NACA has recruited, in accordance with the requirements of 
Section III of this Schedule 2, the following long-term senior technical specialists 
for the Project (in addition to those recruited pursuant to Section 5.01(a) of this 
Agreement): (i) a second financial management consultant; and (ii) a second 
procurement consultant, all with terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
The Borrower shall ensure that its Office of the Auditor General has cleared all 
of the audit backlogs: (i) no later than eight (8) months after the Effective Date 
for Phase I Health Districts; and (ii) by inception of Phase II Health Districts, to 
the Bank’s satisfaction. 
C. 
No later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
have ensured that a detailed social analysis under Part A of the Project has been 
carried out, as satisfactory to the Bank. 
D. 
No later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall have 
ensured that all finance and accounting Project staff in the Beneficiary Ministries 
and NACA necessary for Project implementation have been recruited in 
accordance with the requirements of Section III of this Schedule 2, all with terms 
of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
17
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; and (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15and October  15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2016  
 
Through October 15, 2032 
 
2.94 % 
On April 15, 2033 
2.98 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
18
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
19
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
2. 
“Annual Work Plan” means the annual work plan and budget for the carrying out 
of all Parts of the Project, including the Subproject proposals and Beneficiary 
Ministries’ work plans, consolidated by NACA. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Beneficiary” means a Non-State Actor which qualifies to receive a Subproject 
Grant for the purposes of a Subproject that is financed or proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to a Subproject Grant Agreement under 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and in Section I.D 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5. 
“Beneficiary Ministries” means, collectively, the MOE, MLHA, MLG, MWT, 
MYSC and MOH; (as hereinafter defined) and those that the Borrower may 
identify annually and reflect in any Annual Work Plan, and responsible for the 
implementation of activities under Part B of the Project. 
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
8. 
“CSO” or “Civil Society Organization” means an entity established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s laws, including rural or urban communities, 
grassroots organizations, religious and cultural organizations, faith-based 
organizations, groups of people living with HIV/AIDS, professional  
and 
non-professional 
associations, 
non-governmental 
organizations 
and 
community-based associations involved in HIV/AIDS, and responsible for the 
implementation of Subprojects under Part C of the Project. 
9. 
“District” means an administrative area of the Borrower, established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Local Government (District Councils) Act, Chapter 40:01 
representing a designated area and population within the territory of the 
Borrower. 
10. 
“District AIDS Coordinator” means the secretary to the DMSAC (as defined 
hereinafter) in each District, established and operating pursuant to the 
implementation of the Borrower’s HIV/AIDS Second Medium Term Plan II 
20
(1997-2002)/ 1997 and operating in each Health District (as defined here below), 
or any legal successor or successors thereto, as referred to in paragraph 6 of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
11. 
“DMSAC” means the District Multisectoral AIDS Committee established 
pursuant to the implementation of the Borrower’s HIV/AIDS Second Medium 
Term Plan II (1997-2002)/ 1997 and operating in each Health District (as defined 
here below) as referred to in paragraph 4 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
12. 
“Financial Management Assessment” means the assessment to be carried out by 
the Bank pursuant to Section IV.B.1(c)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
during the second year of implementation of the Project of the financial 
management capacity of Phase II Health Districts other than Phase I Health 
Districts. 
13. 
“Financial Year” means the Borrower’s financial year from April 1 to March 31 
of each calendar year.  
14. 
“Finance, Administration and Audit Committee” means the finance, 
administration and audit committee of NACA, as referred to in paragraph 5(b)(ii) 
of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
15. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning April 1 and ending 
March 31 of the next calendar year. 
16. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
17. 
“Health District” means an administrative area of the Borrower, established 
administratively as sub-districts of the Districts (as defined here above) 
representing a designated area and population within the territory of the 
Borrower and “Health Districts” means collectively all such health districts. 
18. 
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-deficiency Virus. 
19. 
“MFDP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Development Planning 
or any legal successor or successors thereto. 
20. 
“MLG” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government or any legal 
successor or successors thereto. 
21. 
“MLHA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Home Affairs or any 
legal successor or successors thereto. 
22. 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education or any legal successor  
or successors thereto. 
21
23. 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health or any legal successor  
or successors thereto. 
24. 
“MWT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Works and Transport or any legal 
successor or successors thereto. 
25. 
“MYSC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Youth, Sports, and Culture or any 
legal successor or successors thereto. 
26. 
“NACA” means the National AIDS Coordinating Agency of the Borrower, 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential Directive 
Cab.32/99, dated December 14, 1999, or any legal successor or successors 
thereto, as referred to in paragraph 4 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement in charge of implementing Part A of the Project and coordinating the 
implementation of the Project. 
27. 
“Non-State Actors” means, collectively, CSOs and private sector entities, 
established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower, involved in 
HIV/AIDS activities; and “Non-State Actor” means any of such Non-State 
Actors. 
28. 
“Office of the Auditor General” means the Borrower’s Office of the Auditor 
General or any legal successor or successors thereto. 
29. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by Beneficiary 
Ministries, Non-State Actors, and NACA under the Project, which would not 
exist absent the Project, based on the Annual Work Plan referred to in paragraph 
4 of Section II.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as approved by the Bank, on 
account of Project  management, and monitoring and evaluation, including for 
utilities and supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, 
maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment 
maintenance, advertising and communication expenses, travel and supervision, 
and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, 
honoraria, and bonuses of members of the Borrower’s civil service. 
30. 
“Operational Manual” means a manual satisfactory to the Bank referred to in 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, outlining, inter alia, the 
implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation, 
financial management, disbursement, and procurement arrangements for 
purposes of implementation of the Project and Subprojects, including the 
eligibility criteria and procedures for extending Subproject Grants, as may be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and 
such term includes any schedules and annexes to the said manual. 
31. 
“Phase I Health District” means each of South East, Kweneng East, Francistown, 
Selebi-Phikwe Health Districts, and the Goodhope Sub-Health District, of the 
Borrower, in which Health Districts activities under of the Project are expected to 
take place starting on following the Effective Date. 
22
32. 
“Phase II Health District” means each Health District of the Borrower, in which 
Health Districts activities under the Project are expected to take place as of and 
after the second anniversary of the Effective Date. 
33. 
“Procurement Committee” means the procurement committee of NACA, as 
referred to in paragraph 5(b)(iii) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
34. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
35. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 26, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
36. 
“Program” means the Borrower’s National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS 
(2003-2009) and the subsequent national strategic framework for HIV/AIDS 
approved by the Borrower. 
37. 
“Programs Committee” means the programs committee of NACA, as referred to 
in paragraph 5(b)(i) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
38. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the Project steering committee, as referred 
to in paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
39. 
“Subproject” means an agreed set of specific community-based activities to be 
carried out by a Beneficiary under Part C of the Project, financed or proposed to 
be financed through a Subproject Grant. 
40. 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to a Beneficiary 
pursuant to a Subproject Grant Agreement to finance a Subproject. 
41. 
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
NACA or the District AIDS Coordinator (as the case may be) and a Beneficiary 
for the purpose of extending a Subproject Grant to the said Beneficiary. 
42. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, 
as reflected in an annual budget approved by the Bank, such term including 
seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated with such activity 
include travel and subsistence costs for training participants, costs associated 
with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and 
reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related to course 
preparation and implementation. 
43. 
“Technical Sub-Committee” means the HIV/AIDS technical sub-committee of 
the Project, as referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
23
 
