CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7638 HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rijeka Gateway II Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
PORT OF RIJEKA AUTHORITY 
 
Dated April 17, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7638 HR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 17, 2009, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and the PORT OF RIJEKA 
AUTHORITY (“Borrower”).   
 
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in Section I of the Appendix to this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions and in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty-four million Euro 
(EUR 84,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project. 
 
2.02. 
(a) 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.    
 
(b) 
On each of the semiannual Payment Dates specified in Section 2.05 of 
this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on 
such date, the interest on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the 
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated in, Category (2) of the table 
set forth in paragraph A.2, Section IV, of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as such Category may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Bank and the Borrower. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
- 2 -
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
- 3 -
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Executive Director. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Port of Rijeka Authority 
Riva 1 Street 
Rijeka 51000 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(385) 51-331-764 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction 
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
(1) 202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
- 4 -
AGREED at Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Andras Horvai 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
PORT OF RIJEKA AUTHORITY 
 
By: /s/ Bojan Hlaca 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to develop the capacity, financial performance, 
and quality of services in the port of Rijeka to meet growing traffic demand, through 
public-private partnerships, while facilitating urban renewal by enabling the relocation of 
port activities.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
1. 
Port Terminal Development
Provision of civil works to extend the existing Brajdica Container Terminal by 
about three hundred thirty (330) meters and to build a Zagreb Container Terminal of 
about four hundred (400) meters long to enable the conversion of the Delta and port of 
Baross areas into an urban area by making alternative port space available. 
2. 
Port Service Enhancements
Provision of support in concessioning selected terminals, equipment and technical 
services for information flow integration and secured port access, enhanced 
environmental response with the development of a comprehensive port environment 
protection plan and purchase of waste collection vessel to address traffic increase in line 
with the requirements of the Croatian legislation and the International Convention for the 
Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, and carrying out of technical studies to prepare 
for the Masterplan implementation. 
3. 
Project Implementation
Supervision of civil works activities, carrying of audit services for the Project, 
and provision of support in procurement and Project management. 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements: Project Implementation Unit 
 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PIU, headed by a Project 
Director, and ensuring relevant staff from the Borrower’s various departments are 
available to the PIU and report appropriately to the Project Director.  For such purposes, 
the Borrower shall: (i) take all action required to maintain the PIU throughout Project 
implementation with sufficient financial, human and logistical resources pursuant to the 
arrangements described in the Project Implementation Plan; (ii) designate for selected 
Project activities a component manager who will report to the Project Director; and (iii) 
ensure the PIU is supported at all times by a financial management specialist, a 
procurement specialist, an environmental specialist, an administrator, additional support 
in procurement as required for complex assignments, and any other supplementary staff 
as reasonably needed for Project implementation. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Environmental Management Plan 
The Borrower shall take all action necessary to carry out the measures identified 
in the Environmental Management Plan at all times in a timely manner, ensuring that 
adequate information on the implementation of said measures, including on the screening 
of the physical cultural resources located in the proximity of the Zagreb terminal, is 
suitably included in the Project Reports to be prepared pursuant to the provisions of Part 
A of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
D. 
Project Implementation Plan 
 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions and requirements set forth or referred to in the Project 
Implementation Plan.  
 
(b) 
Unless the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower may not amend or 
waive the Project Implementation Plan or any of the provisions thereof. 
 
- 7 -
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the Monitoring and Evaluation indicators.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Mid-Term Review 
 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2011, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, on or about December 15, 2011 or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in the preceding paragraph (b), and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
C. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
- 8 -
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year.  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the end of such period. 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (Other than Consultants’ Services).  All good, 
works and services (other than consultants’ services) required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Consultants’ 
 
Services (Other than Consultants’ Services) 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (Other than 
Consultants’ Services). The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other 
than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
services (other than consultants’ services).  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures stipulated in the 
Annex to this Schedule 
- 9 -
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) 
Selection under a Fixed-Budget 
(b) 
Least-Cost Selection 
(c) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) 
Single Source Selection 
(e) 
Individual Consultants 
(f) 
Sole-source basis for individual consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
- 10 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Goods, Works, Services 
 
(other than Consultants’ 
 
Services), Consultants’ 
 
Services, and Training 
 
76,000,000 
95% 
(2) Interest and other 
charges on the Loan 
accrued on or before 
September 14, 2014 
 
7,790,000 
Amounts due pursuant to 
Section 
2.04 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (c) of the 
General Conditions 
(3)  Front-end Fee 
210,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
84,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 15, 2014. 
 
Section V.
Other Undertakings
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur 
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower 
shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.1 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower including the debt 
to be incurred. 
 
- 11 -
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate 
maintenance, 
taxes 
and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(vi) 
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the 
Borrower not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and the 
Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no event 
has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse 
- 12 -
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of the 
Borrower. 
 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
- 13 -
ANNEX  
TO  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
For the purposes of applying National Competitive Bidding procedures in the 
procurement of goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) to be 
financed under the Loan, the following modifications and additions shall apply: 
 
(i) 
Procedures
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts.  Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette (Narodne Novine) and in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper or at the Borrower’s website, allowing a 
minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(ii) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex contracts, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in the Guarantor’s Official 
Gazette (Narodne Novine) and at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper or 
at the Borrower’s website a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of pre-qualification applications.  Minimum experience, technical and 
financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents, which 
shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through the use of a merit point system. 
Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is recommended 
for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum 
experience, technical and financial requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the 
bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Guarantor’s territory 
shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the Bank’s 
satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
laws and are not a dependent agency of the Guarantor’s government.  Said enterprises 
shall be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(iv) 
Bidding Documents
The PIU, acting as procuring entity, shall use the appropriate standard bidding 
documents for the procurement of goods or services (other than consultants’ services), as 
defined in the paragraph 1.1 of the Guidelines, which shall contain draft contract and 
conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank. 
 
- 14 -
(v) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(1) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened simultaneously 
at the public bid opening. 
 
(2) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  The name of the bidder, the total amount of each bid and any 
discounts offered shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes of the public bid 
opening. 
 
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point system shall not 
be used. 
 
(4) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be granted without the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
 
(5) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(6) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 
(vi) 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g., more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
 
(vii) 
Rejection of All Bids
(1) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior written concurrence. 
 
(2) 
When the number of bids received is less than two (2), re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(viii) 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; and performance securities not more than ten percent (10%).  No advance 
payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security.  The 
wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
March 15, 2019 
2.10 % 
September 15, 2019 
2.19 % 
March 15, 2020 
2.29 % 
September 15, 2020 
2.40 % 
March 15, 2021 
2.50 % 
September 15, 2021 
2.62 % 
March 15, 2022 
2.73 % 
September 15, 2022 
2.86 % 
March 15, 2023 
2.99 % 
September 15, 2023 
3.12 % 
March 15, 2024 
3.26 % 
September 15, 2024 
3.41 % 
March 15, 2025 
3.56 % 
September 15, 2025 
3.72 % 
March 15, 2026 
3.89 % 
September 15, 2026 
4.06 % 
March 15, 2027 
4.25 % 
September 15, 2027 
4.44 % 
March 15, 2028 
4.64 % 
September 15, 2028 
4.85 % 
March 15, 2029 
5.06 % 
September 15, 2029 
5.29 % 
March 15, 2030 
5.53 % 
September 15, 2030 
5.78 % 
March 15, 2031 
6.04 % 
September 15, 2031 
6.42 % 
- 16 -
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
- 17 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006.  
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management plan 
adopted by the Borrower on May 7, 2008, describing the environmental, 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken by the 
Borrower under Part 1 of the Project to ensure that all environmental concerns 
are adequately taken into account in the carrying out of the works and activities 
thereunder. 
5. 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s or Guarantor’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 
and ends on December 31 in each calendar year. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
7. 
“Masterplan” means the Borrower’s long term strategic program of development, 
dated April 2008, as the same may be updated from time to time. 
8. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed monitoring and 
evaluation indicators for the Project set forth in a letter of even date herewith to 
be utilized by the Borrower to measure the progress in the implementation of the 
Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
- 18 -
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 27, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
11. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan setting forth the operational 
policies and procedures for Project implementation and the job description of the 
PIU staff responsible for Project implementation, including the definition of 
duties, responsibilities, lines of supervision, and limits of authority for each staff, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
 
12. 
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit 
established within the Borrower for the implementation of the Rijeka Gateway 
Project (Loan Agreement No. 4715-HR dated July 12, 2003) and the Additional 
Loan for Rijeka Gateway Project (Loan Agreement No. 4715-1 HR dated June 
11, 2007). 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end 
Fee and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the 
Association (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such 
Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective 
Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan 
Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the 
advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn to 
itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the 
Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing 
Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank 
- 19 -
or the Association or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank 
or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
