CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7678-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(GuiGuang Railway Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 3, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 3, 2009,
between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars 
($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Railways in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
3
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
86-10-6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to provide additional transport capacity and reduce 
transport time between the less developed western region in southwest China and the 
relatively more developed Pearl River delta region. 
 
The Project consists of the following part, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Railway Line between Guiyang and Guangzhou 
 
1. 
Construction of a new two track electrified rail line of about 857 km for freight 
and passenger service connecting Guiyang in Guizhou Province and 
Guangzhou in Guangdong Province, including construction of sub-grades, 
tunnels, bridges, culverts and buildings, acquisition and installation of goods 
(including 
communications, 
signaling, 
mechanical 
and 
electrification 
equipment, and concrete beams), and provision of related technical assistance. 
 
2. 
Construction of new railway stations along the rail line referred to in Part A.1 
of the Project. 
 
3. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.  
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
cause the Ministry of Railways to engage and retain throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project the independent procurement 
agent, referred to in paragraph A.3 of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
purpose of procuring all goods and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
 
(b) 
cause the Ministry of Railways to construct the GuiGuang Railway Line 
through the Preparation Group, including installing the equipment 
procured pursuant to clause (a) of this paragraph, in accordance with: 
 
(i) 
arrangements and a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
appropriate technical standards, alignment and specifications; 
and 
 
(iii) 
appropriate international standards and practices relating to 
design, installation and construction supervision, including 
standards and practices for securing, assimilating and integrating 
tested, mature and safe technology and products suitable for 
operating the GuiGuang Railway Line; and 
 
(c) 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, cause the Ministry of Railways 
to maintain:  
 
(i) 
the Preparation Group with adequate powers, functions, staff and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank in order to enable it to 
implement the construction of the GuiGuang Railway Line and 
to ensure the implementation of the RAP Arrangements; and 
 
(ii) 
FCTIC with adequate powers, functions, staff and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank in order to enable it to carry out 
procurement and financial management related to the Project and 
to supervise the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Ministry of Railways to take, all 
necessary actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals, to 
6
facilitate the implementation of the Project and to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its undertakings in this Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways, cause the Provinces: (a) to 
provide full support, cooperation and assistance; and (b) to take all necessary 
actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals, all for the purpose 
of facilitating the implementation of the Project and to enable the Borrower to 
comply with its undertakings in this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause the Ministry of Railways and through it the 
Provinces to maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Project 
and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other 
information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.  
 
5. 
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall implement and shall cause the 
Ministry of Railways and through it the Provinces to implement or cause to be 
implemented their respective obligations under the RAP, the RAP Arrangements, 
the EMP and the EMDP, all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the 
Ministry of Railways and through it the Provinces, to: 
 
(a) 
take all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or 
permanently, and the displacement of said people in the carrying out of 
the Project or any part thereof;  
 
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of people is 
unavoidable, before initiating the implementation of any works which 
would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to such 
people compensation and, as applicable, relocate and rehabilitate the 
displaced people in accordance with the RAP and the RAP Arrangements 
and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(c)  
not amend, suspend, abrogate, fail to enforce, or waive the EMP or the 
RAP or the RAP Arrangements or the EMDP or any provisions thereof  
without the prior concurrence of the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
monitor on a six (6) monthly basis the implementation of the RAP, the 
RAP Arrangements, the EMDP, through independent consultants or 
other agencies satisfactory to the Bank under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and promptly after completion of each said 
monitoring, provide to the Bank a report on the results of the monitoring.  
 
7
6.  
The Borrower shall cause the Ministry of Railways to supplement the RAP in a 
manner and a timeframe satisfactory to the Bank in order to update the 
implementation measures set out therein including for villages severely affected 
by the Project. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the GuiGuang Railway Line is commissioned for 
operation no later than December 31, 2015, following appropriate testing and 
other procedures, and shall thereafter take all necessary measures to ensure that it 
is operated and maintained in a financially, technically and administratively 
viable manner. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause the Ministry of Railways and through 
it the Provinces to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2016. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
8
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of all goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be carried out by a qualified procurement agent engaged by the Borrower through 
the Ministry of Railways in accordance with the provisions of Part C of this 
Section III and of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55  
and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower (other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower). 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
Goods costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded under NCB 
procedures, subject to the additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below.  
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on 
9
Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order 
No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, 
with the following clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement 
Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification 
or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In 
any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to 
bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and 
the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
10
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under 3(i) above) or official gazette or a free and open access 
website and shall identify the name and offered price of the 
winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary scope of 
the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
the Borrower shall have in place provisions for bidders to 
protest. 
 
11
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Selection under Fixed Budget 
(c)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) 
Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods to be procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding; (b) the first contract for goods to be procured under National 
Competitive Bidding procedures; (c) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm or an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 
or more; and (d) all consultant’s contracts procured under single source selection. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, 
inclusive of taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
12
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed 
 
(1) Goods under Part A.1 of 
the Project 
 
298,950,000 
100% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services, 
training and study tours 
under Part A.1 of the 
Project 
 
300,000 
100% 
 
(3) Front-end Fee 
750,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
Total 
300,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
13
ANNEX 
 
Results Framework 
 
Project Development 
Objective 
Project Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome Information 
The development objective of 
the Project is to provide 
additional transport capacity 
and reduce transport time 
between the less developed 
western region in southwest 
China and the relatively more 
developed Pearl River delta 
region. 
 
1. Provide passenger train services 
(No. of pairs of trains per day). 
 
2. Provide freight train services 
(No. of pairs of trains per day). 
 
3. Reduce passenger transit time 
(average travel time). 
 
Feed into the evaluation of the 
overall China Railways 
development program. 
Intermediate Results 
Intermediate Results Indicators 
Use of Intermediate Results 
Monitoring 
Construction of the 
GuiGuang Railway 
 
Progress rate of works and 
procurement of goods. 
 
Monitoring of implementation 
progress and action plan to 
address possible delays. 
14
Arrangements for results monitoring
Project Outcome
Indicators
Base-
line
Target Values
Data Collection and Reporting
(along the rail line
between Guiyang to
Guangzhou)
2008
2010
2012
2014
2016(1)
2022
2032
Frequency
and
Reports
Data
Collection
Instruments
Responsibility
1. Average number of
pairs of express
passenger trains
operated per day.(2) (3)
3
3
3
4
15
48
74
2. Average number of
pairs of freight trains
operated per day. (3) (4)
(5)
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
10
22
27
3. Average travel time
of express passenger
trains (minutes).(2)
1,500
1,500
1,500
1,500
330
330
330
Annually
MOR
operating
statistics
MOR
(1) Taken as the first full year of operation of GuiGuang Railway.
(2) GuiGuang Railway will reduce the distance between Guiyang and Guangdong along the two existing routes by nearly half. In addition, EMU
passenger trains with maximum operating speed of 200 km/h will operate on the completed GuiGuang Railway.
(3) Standard passenger trains comprise 8 cars and freight trains 50 cars.
(4) Includes through luggage, container, and coupling trains. No direct freight trains are operating between Guiyang and Guangzhou.
(5) Although freight and cargo moves between Guiyang and Guangzhou, there are no freight trains operating directly. Rail cars are attached to and
transferred between other trains. The number reported here are equivalent numbers based upon available data and general knowledge of the area.
Determining intermediate values will be difficult.
15
Performance Indicators
Intermediate Results
Indicators
Base-
line
Target Values
Data Collection and Reporting
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
Frequency
and Reports
Data
Collection
Instruments
Responsibility
1. % of civil works
completed (physical
% complete)
0
15
35
55
75
90
100
2. % of Bank-
financed goods
contracted (by value)
0
0
5
15
25
70
100
Twice yearly
Project
progress
report
MOR
16
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
May 15, 2014 
1.48% 
November 15, 2014 
1.52% 
May 15, 2015 
1.56% 
November 15, 2015 
1.59% 
May 15, 2016 
1.63% 
November 15, 2016 
1.67% 
May 15, 2017 
1.72% 
November 15, 2017 
1.76% 
May 15, 2018 
1.80% 
November 15, 2018 
1.85% 
May 15, 2019 
1.89% 
November 15, 2019 
1.94% 
May 15, 2020 
1.99% 
November 15, 2020 
2.04% 
May 15, 2021 
2.09% 
November 15, 2021 
2.14% 
May 15, 2022 
2.20% 
November 15, 2022 
2.25% 
May 15, 2023 
2.31% 
November 15, 2023 
2.37% 
May 15, 2024 
2.43% 
November 15, 2024 
2.49% 
May 15, 2025 
2.55% 
November 15, 2025 
2.61% 
May 15, 2026 
2.68% 
November 15, 2026 
2.74% 
17
May 15, 2027 
2.81% 
November 15, 2027 
2.88% 
May 15, 2028 
2.95% 
November 15, 2028 
3.03% 
May 15, 2029 
3.10% 
November 15, 2029 
3.18% 
May 15, 2030 
3.26% 
November 15, 2030 
3.34% 
May 15, 2031 
3.43% 
November 15, 2031 
3.51% 
May 15, 2032 
3.60% 
November 15, 2032 
3.69% 
May 15, 2033 
3.78% 
November 15, 2033 
4.14% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
18
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
19
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or 
(ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected 
areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and 
“Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“EMDP” means the Ethnic Minority Development Plan dated January 24, 2009 
and duly adopted by the Borrower in respect of the Project and related facilities 
with the objective of avoiding cultural, social and economic adverse effects on  
ethnic minorities caused or likely to be caused by the Project, and through a 
process of informed consultation and participation, involving concerned ethnic 
minorities in the design and implementation of relevant activities under the Project 
so as to ensure that the benefits received by the ethnic minorities under the Project 
are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect 
their customary user rights. 
 
6. 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated November 25, 2008 and 
duly adopted by the Borrower in respect of the Project and related facilities, 
including access roads, construction camps and resettlement sites, which plan sets 
out, inter alia: (a) the actions and measures to be taken for mitigating the adverse 
environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of said Project and 
related facilities; (b) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing 
actions and measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse 
environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in locations 
that are not directly identified in the EMP; and (c) administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
20
7. 
“FCTIC” means the Foreign Capital and Technology Import Center of the 
Ministry of Railways. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Guangdong” means the Guangdong Province of the Borrower or any successor 
thereto. 
 
10. 
“Guangxi” means the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of the Borrower or 
any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Guangzhou” means the city of Guangzhou in Guangdong Province. 
 
12. 
“GuiGuang Railway Line” means the railway line to be constructed under  
Part A.1 of the Project. 
 
13. 
“Guiyang” means the city of Guiyang in Guizhou Province. 
 
14. 
“Guizhou” means the Guizhou Province of the Borrower or any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“Ministry of Railways” means the Ministry of Railways of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto and for the purpose of this Agreement, the reference to the 
Ministry of Railways shall include, inter alia, specific reference to the Railway 
Administrations. 
 
16. 
“Preparation Group” means the GuiGuang Railway Company Preparation Group 
established by the Ministry of Railways by Resolution dated November 28, 2007. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan dated February 3, 
2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Provinces” means Guizhou, Guangxi and Guangdong. 
 
20. 
“Railway Administrations” mean the Chengdu Railway Administration, the 
Guangzhou Railway Administration and the Nanning Railway Administration 
each of which is established by the Ministry of Railways under its administrative 
21
control and responsible for the management, operation and maintenance of the 
railway system over an assigned territory of the Borrower and in which a portion 
of the GuiGuang Railway Line will be constructed. 
 
21. 
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan in respect of the Project dated July 2008 
duly adopted by the Borrower and the Ministry of Railways, which plan sets out, 
inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land 
required for the Project and related facilities, including access roads, construction 
camps and resettlement sites; (b) actions and measures for the payment of 
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; 
(c) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing actions and 
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating the adverse social impacts 
resulting from the implementation of activities in locations that are not directly 
identified in the RAP; and (d) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
22. 
“RAP Arrangements” means collectively the arrangement dated November 6, 
2008, entered into between the Preparation Group on behalf of the Ministry of 
Railways and Guizhou; the arrangement dated November 7, 2008, entered into 
between the Preparation Group on behalf of the Ministry of Railways and 
Guangxi; and the arrangement dated February 4, 2009, entered into between the 
Preparation Group on behalf of the Ministry of Railways and Foshan Municipality 
and Zhaoqing Municipality of Guangdong (Municipalities) for the purpose of 
causing the RAP to be carried out by the respective Province/Municipality in 
accordance with paragraph 5 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; the 
RAP Arrangements include the letter dated February 19, 2009, from the Ministry 
of Railways authorizing the Preparation Group to enter into the RAP 
Arrangements with the relevant Provinces/Municipalities. 
 
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (1) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank 
…. 
(1) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
22
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.”  
 
