CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7641-MU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Economic Transition Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 16, 2009 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7641-MU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 16, 2009, between the REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighteen million Dollars 
($18,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Finance and Economic Empowerment. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
 
Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economic 
 
Empowerment.  
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment 
Government House 
Port Louis 
Mauritius 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN 
4247 
(230) 213 6450 
 
Port Louis 
 
EXTERN IW 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Port Louis, Republic of Mauritius, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
By: /s/ Ramakrishna Sithanen  
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Ruth Kagia 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to improve the performance of selected public 
enterprises and services that contribute to an improved investment climate in Mauritius. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1. Business Facilitation
1.A. 
Simplifying 
Business 
Licensing 
Procedures.
(i) 
Design 
and 
implementation of a program to streamline the business licensing regime in Mauritius.  
(ii) Development of an information technology infrastructure to enhance efficiency of the 
business licensing system, and an information technology based business registration 
system.  (iii) Creation of a national database of business licenses.  (iv) Mapping of the  
re-engineered business licensing processes and workflow systems to allow online 
submission and processing of applications for business licenses.  (v) Development of an 
effective ex-post control program across line ministries to verify compliance with 
established business licensing guidelines. (vi) Carrying out of related outreach seminars 
to public service officials and the business community. 
 
1.B. 
Improving Access to Commercial Justice. Establishment and operation 
of a dedicated commercial division of the Supreme Court and mediation services, 
including: (i) installation of information systems to provide efficient case and mediation 
services management; (ii) carrying out of a systematic training needs assessment  
for judges and other officials of the Commercial Division of the Supreme  
Court; (iii) provision of relevant training and study tours to the said judges and officials, 
and training to other officers and mediators that support commercial courts;  
and (iv) provision of commercial law reports, including specialized reports on intellectual 
property and building contracts, for the commercial division of the Supreme Court.  
 
1.C. 
Improving Land Title Registration Services.  Improvement of the land 
registries’ effectiveness in facilitating the registration and securitization of land based 
assets through training and technical assistance to the Registrar General’s Office to 
reengineer and computerize the registration process for immovable property and to set up 
an online registry for collaterals.  
 
1.D. 
Extending Coverage of the Credit Reference Bureau. 
Provision of 
technical assistance to the Bank of Mauritius (“BoM”) to: (i) determine an appropriate 
business model for information collection and sharing between BoM, lenders, private 
credit rating bureaus and borrowers; (ii) create an appropriate licensing and regulatory 
framework for private credit bureaus; (iii) consider options for upgrading or replacing the 
information technology platform to facilitate the gathering, processing and distribution of 
6
credit information to include banks and other sectors; and (iv) train Credit Information 
Bureau officers, including provision of study tours to countries that have the same model 
of credit bureaus.  
 
1.E.
Streamlining the Legal Framework for Business.   (i) Carrying out of  
a comprehensive census and study of the business, economic and trade laws of Mauritius.  
(ii) Provision of technical assistance for drafting of identified priority legislation and 
legislative amendments that impact the business environment of Mauritius.  
(iii) Strengthening the capacity of the Attorney General’s Office to draft legislation 
through provision of training for its officers.  (iv) Establishment of a specialized library 
on legislative drafting and business and trade law in the Attorney General’s Office. 
Part 2. Public Enterprise Reform
2.A. 
Support for the Public Enterprise Reform Unit and Cross-Cutting 
Reforms. 
(i) 
Design and implementation of a public enterprise management 
and information and tracking system by: (a) carrying out an information availability and 
needs assessment, and designing an information and reporting system, including linkage 
with other information systems of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment 
(“MoFEE”), sector ministries and parastatals; (b) acquiring related software and 
hardware for such system; and (c) providing related training to the Public Enterprise 
Reform Unit (“PERU”) staff. 
 
 
(ii) 
Provision of technical assistance to MoFEE and to the public 
utilities, agro-industry, industry and commerce, and social services technical working 
groups to design and implement a comprehensive five year parastatal reform strategy and 
action plan. 
 
 
 
(iii) 
Provision of training to PERU staff in public enterprise 
diagnostics and implementation of reform programs at sector and enterprise levels, 
including staff exchange arrangements with similar units in other countries that have 
implemented such reforms. 
 
 
(iv) 
Provision of technical assistance in cross-cutting aspects of the 
parastatal reform program, including corporate governance reforms, design of 
performance management systems for parastatals, treasury management, mergers, 
rationalizations and divestments, and design and implementation of public information 
and outreach strategies and of social mitigation strategies.  
 
2.B. 
Support for Sector and Enterprise Level Reforms. (i) Improvement of 
parastatal monitoring information systems, through the provision of related hardware and 
software and training, at the line ministry level.   (ii) Provision of technical assistance to 
7
sector working groups and public enterprises to prepare and implement enterprise level 
restructuring programs, reform action plans and interventions.   
 
2.C. 
 Support 
for 
the 
Establishment 
of 
the 
Competition  
Commission. (i) Design, establishment and implementation of the new Competition 
Commission. (ii) Development of the Competition Commission’s operational  
strategies and methodologies.  (iii) Carrying out of a program to develop the capacity  
of the Competition Commission and other parties, such as judges, legal practitioners  
and public officials, involved with the implementation of competition law and policies.  
(iv) Provision of training, including staff exchanges and twinning arrangements with 
similar bodies in other countries.  (v) Provision of information technology support to the 
Competition Commission. (vi) Devising and execution of an advocacy and public 
outreach program to communicate the implications of the Competition Act 2007 and 
related policies. 
Part 3. Utility Regulation and Public Private Partnerships
3.A. 
Strengthening 
the 
Institutional 
Framework 
for 
Public 
Private 
Partnerships. 
Provision of technical assistance to the Pubic Private Partnership Unit 
(“PPP Unit”) to: (i) prepare a pipeline of public private partnership (“PPP”)  
projects; (ii) provide in-house training to PPP Unit staff on appropriate PPP development 
strategies; (iii) structure PPP transactions; (iv) prepare a ten-year infrastructure 
development 
plan; 
(v) 
assist 
Contracting 
Authorities 
to 
identify 
private  
investors; (vi) implement a specialized information technology system in the PPP Unit;  
(vii) provide training to the public and relevant stakeholders on the preparation and 
promotion of PPP projects; and (viii) assess, and conduct related stakeholder 
consultations on, enhancements of the legal and institutional framework for PPPs in 
Mauritius.  Provision of training, including study tours, to PPP Unit staff.  
 
3.B. 
Establishing the Utility Regulation Authority. 
(i) Establishment of 
reporting and monitoring systems for the Utility Regulation Authority.  (ii) Provision  
of information technology investments to build the Utility Regulation Authority’s 
capacity to carry out its mandate.  (iii) Provision of training, including study tours, to the 
Utility Regulation Authority staff.  
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project: 
(a) 
PERU to (i) carry out the procurement, financial management and 
monitoring and evaluation responsibilities of the Project, (ii) initiate the 
baseline data collection for each of the Project performance indicators 
referred to in Section II.A.1 of this Schedule, in collaboration with the 
designated focal points referred to in Part A.3 of this Section  
(“Focal Points”), and (iii) serve as coordinator for the overall Project, 
including to consolidate the progress reports and inputs received from  
the Focal Points, and to provide the consolidated, periodic reports  
to the Project Coordinating Committee, referred to in Part A.1(b) of this 
Section, for review; and 
(b) 
a Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by a Director of MoFEE and 
comprising the Focal Points and a representative from the private sector, 
to (i) provide strategic guidance on, and oversight of, the overall reform 
process undertaken under the Project, (ii) approve annual Project work 
programs and budgets, (iii) review and clear all Project progress reports 
prepared by PERU, including reviewing and clearing all Project  
reports specified in Section II of this Schedule, before furnishing them to 
the Bank, and (iv) address any major problems affecting Project 
implementation. 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out:  
(a) 
Part 1 of the Project through the Board of Investment; 
(b) 
Parts 2.A and 2.B of the Project through PERU; 
(c) 
Part 2.C of the Project through the Ministry of Business, Enterprise and 
Cooperatives;  
(d)  
Part 3.A of the Project through the PPP Unit; and 
(e)  
Part 3.B of the Project through the Ministry of Renewable Energy and 
Public Utilities. 
9
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the individual executing agencies referred to in 
Part A.2 of this Section, and the other agencies benefitting from the Project, 
specifically the Supreme Court, Registrar General’s Office, Bank of Mauritius 
and Attorney General’s Office, maintain Focal Points, who will be designated 
respectively by the head of each agency.  Each Focal Point shall be responsible 
for: (a) the day-to-day implementation of the activities under the respective parts 
of the Project, including (i) managing the technical aspects of the Project 
activities, (ii) preparing the terms of reference for, and supervising, the relevant 
consultants, and (iii) coordinating with government agencies; (b) the 
programming of the annual plans and budget for the relevant Project activities; 
(c) the monitoring and reporting of the relevant Project activities; and (d) the 
related public relations. 
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the 
Recipient shall ensure that: 
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual, including the financial management and procurement 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b) 
the Project Implementation Manual or any part thereof is not amended, 
waived, suspended or abrogated without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence, and in case of any inconsistency between the provisions of 
the Project Implementation Manual and those of this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
10 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth  
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
11 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including 
the 
“World 
Bank 
Disbursement 
Guidelines 
for 
Projects”  
12 
 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, consultants’ 
services and training for the 
Project 
 
17,955,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
 
45,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
18,000,000 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” means reasonable 
expenditure directly related to the provision of training, including twinning 
arrangements, staff exchanges, study tours and outreach seminars, under the 
Project. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after November 1, 2008, 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2014. 
 
13 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 
and August 15, the first installment to be payable on the eleventh (11th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last 
installment to be payable on the thirtieth (30th) Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the last one 
shall be equal to one-twentieth (1/20) of the Disbursed Amount.  The last installment 
shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.  
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount  
would, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after 
February 15, 2029, the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all 
such installments. 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency. 
 
.
14 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Attorney General’s Office” means the office of the Attorney General, who is the 
principal legal adviser to the Government of Mauritius, as established under the 
Constitution of Mauritius. 
3. 
“Bank of Mauritius Act 2004” means the Act No. 34 published in the 
Government Gazette of Mauritius No. 98 of 14 October 2004. 
4. 
 “BoI” means the Board of Investment, which operates under the aegis of MoFEE  
(as defined herein) and was established under the Investment Promotion Act 
2000 (as defined herein). 
5. 
“BoM” means the Bank of Mauritius as defined in Bank of Mauritius Act 2004 
(as defined herein). 
6. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
7. 
 “Competition Act 2007” means the Act No. 25 of 2007 published in the 
Government Gazette of Mauritius No. 119 of 22 December 2007. 
8. 
“Competition Commission” means the commission established by the 
Competition Act 2007 (as defined herein). 
9. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
10. 
“Contracting Authority” means any of the Borrower’s ministries, government 
departments, local authorities or statutory corporations, as the term is defined in 
the Public-Private Partnership Act 2004 (as defined herein).  
11. 
“Credit Information Bureau” means the bureau established by the Bank of 
Mauritius Act 2004 (as defined herein). 
12. 
“Director” means a director of MoFEE (as defined herein). 
15 
 
13. 
“Focal Points” means the focal points described in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
15. 
“Investment Promotion Act 2000” means the Act No. 42 of 2000, published in 
the Government Gazette of Mauritius No. 137 of December 30, 2000. 
16. 
“Ministry of Business, Enterprise and Cooperatives” means the Borrower’s 
ministry responsible for facilitating and assisting the development of business, 
enterprise and cooperatives.  
17. 
“Ministry of Renewable Energy and Public Utilities” means the Borrower’s 
ministry that is responsible for formulating the country’s policies in the energy, 
water and waste water sectors and establishing a legal framework to govern the 
development of these sectors. 
18. 
“MoFEE” means the Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment, which is 
the Borrower’s ministry responsible for the country’s financial affairs. 
19. 
 “PERU” means the Public Enterprise Reform Unit of MoFEE (as defined 
herein), as referred to in Schedule 2, Section I.A.1(a) of this Agreement. 
20. 
“PPP” means public private partnership, as referred to in Part 3.A of the Project. 
21. 
“PPP Unit” means the Pubic Private Partnership Unit, which operates under the 
aegis of MoFEE (as defined herein) and was established under the Public-Private 
Partnership Act 2004 (as defined herein) to deal with public private partnership 
projects in Mauritius.  
22. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 9, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
24. 
“Project Coordinating Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 
I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
16 
 
25. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual, dated December 9, 2008, 
referred to in Section I.A.4(a)-(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
26. 
“Public-Private Partnership Act” means the Act No. 37 of 2004, published in the 
Government Gazette of Mauritius No. 113 of November 27, 2004. 
27. 
“Registrar General’s Office” means the department within the MoFEE  
(as defined herein) that is responsible for registering land and property titles. 
28. 
“Supreme Court” means the court established and defined under the Constitution 
of Mauritius. 
29. 
“Utility Regulatory Authority” means the regulatory authority established by the 
Utility Regulatory Authority (Amendment) Act 2008 (as defined herein). 
30. 
“Utility Regulatory Authority (Amendment) Act 2008” means the Act No. 27 of 
2008, published in the Government Gazette of Mauritius No. 77 of  
August 7, 2008. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required  
to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
17 
 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified  
or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
