CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7705-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Shanxi Coal Bed Methane Development and Utilization Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 2, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 2, 2009, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty million Dollars 
($80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
3
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that: 
(a) any party to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have failed to perform any 
of its obligations thereunder; and (b) SECBMIH’s charter has been amended or 
suspended so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SECBMIH to 
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist Shanxi Province in increasing the 
production and utilization of CBM/CMM to replace coal as a fuel for thermal use and to 
reduce GHGs and local air pollutants associated with coal combustion. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: CBM and LNG Development   
 
1. 
Exploration and development of about 350 vertical CBM production wells with 
an estimated annual production capacity of about 250 million Nm3. 
 
2. 
Construction of about 135 kilometers (km) gas collection pipelines, about 3 CBM 
gathering stations, and about 16 km of gas transmission pipelines. 
 
3. 
Construction of a LNG plant consisting of four (4) modular with individual 
production capacity of about 50,000 tons per year. 
 
Part B: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building 
 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of SECBMIH in constructing and operating the 
facilities under the Project efficiently and safely and expanding its business 
activities in the area of CBM/CMM development. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of Shanxi Province in developing and implementing 
policies to scale up the CBM/CMM industry in Shanxi Province.  
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
Financing Arrangements 
 
1.
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under the following principal terms: 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the Front-end Fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall 
be recovered over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five (5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(d) 
A Front-end Fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
Anti-Corruption 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B to the Schedule 
of the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
7
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank as part of 
the Project Report after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than goods 
8
manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of 
the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with 
the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which 
may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum 
of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall 
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    
9
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to 
the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (i) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (ii) operate under commercial law; and (iii) are 
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the 
procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence. 
10 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered 
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the awarded contract.  
 
(xiv) 
Shanxi shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
(b)  
Shopping  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection  
(b)  
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single-source Selection 
(d)  
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
11 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods and civil works 
 
78,600,000 
 
100% 
(2) Consultants services, 
training, and workshops 
1,200,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
200,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the General 
Conditions 
(4) Premium for Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and Section 4.05(c) 
of the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
80,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
12 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after April 1, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures; and 
 
(b) 
expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) unless: 
 
(i) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Project Implementing Entity and SECBMIH; and  
 
(ii) 
a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, from counsel acceptable 
to the Bank has been provided to the Bank showing that the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Project Implementing Entity and SECBMIH and is legally 
binding upon the Project Implementing Entity and SECBMIH in 
accordance with its terms.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
13 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
September 15, 2014 
2.28% 
March 15, 2015 
2.34% 
September 15, 2015 
2.40% 
March 15, 2016 
2.46% 
September 15, 2016 
2.52% 
March 15, 2017 
2.58% 
September 15, 2017 
2.64% 
March 15, 2018 
2.71% 
September 15, 2018 
2.78% 
March 15, 2019 
2.85% 
September 15, 2019 
2.92% 
March 15, 2020 
2.99% 
September 15, 2020 
3.07% 
March 15, 2021 
3.14% 
September 15, 2021 
3.22% 
March 15, 2022 
3.30% 
September 15, 2022 
3.39% 
March 15, 2023 
3.47% 
September 15, 2023 
3.56% 
March 15, 2024 
3.65% 
September 15, 2024 
3.74% 
March 15, 2025 
3.83% 
September 15, 2025 
3.93% 
March 15, 2026 
4.02% 
September 15, 2026 
4.12% 
March 15, 2027 
4.23% 
September 15, 2027 
4.33% 
14 
March 15, 2028 
4.44% 
September 15, 2028 
4.55% 
March 15, 2029 
4.54% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
15 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
16 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.    Definitions 
 
(1) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
(2) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(3) 
“CBM” means coal bed methane. 
 
(4) 
“CMM” means coal mine methane. 
 
(5) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
(6) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project and the Related Activities, have experienced or would experience direct 
economic and social impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, 
resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; 
or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such 
persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of 
access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse 
impacts on the livelihood of such persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any 
of such Displaced Persons. 
 
(7) 
“Environmental Management Plans” and the acronym “EMPs” mean, 
collectively, the following plans, which set out the environmental protection 
measures in respect of the Project and the Related Activities, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank: 
 
(a) 
the environmental management plan dated April 10, 2008 prepared by 
SECBMIH for Part A.1 of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the environmental management plan dated April 10, 2008 prepared by 
SECBMIH for Part A.2 of the Project;  
 
(c) 
the environmental management plan prepared by SECBMIH for Part A.3 
of the Project; and  
 
17 
(d) 
the environmental management plan dated September 13, 2007 prepared 
by NCBPC for the Related Activities. 
 
The acronym “EMP” means, individually, any such plan. 
 
(8) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of SECBMIH, covering the period January 1 
through December 31.  
 
(9) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
(10) 
“GHG” means greenhouse gases. 
 
(11) 
“LNG” means liquefied natural gas. 
 
(12) 
“NCBPC” means North China Branch of PetroChina Company Limited carrying 
out the Related Activities as defined hereunder. 
 
(13) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
(14) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 6, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
(15) 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Borrower’s Province of Shanxi, and any 
successor thereto.  
 
(16) 
“Related Activities” means, collectively: (a) the construction of a gas 
transmission pipeline through which the gas collected under the Project will be 
transported to the LNG plant constructed under the Project; (b) the construction 
of a gas treatment station where the CBM produced under the Project will be 
treated.   The Related Activities will be carried out by North China Branch of 
PetroChina Company Limited (NCBPC) in Qinshui County, Shanxi Province.   
 
(17) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and its acronym “RAP” mean the resettlement action 
plan, dated March 2008, which sets out the principles and procedures governing 
the acquisition of land and other assets, and the resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on account of the execution of the Project and 
the Related Activities, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
18 
(18) 
“Safety Management Plan” means the plan, dated March 24, 2008, which sets out 
the safety measures and emergency preparedness procedures for the production, 
transmission, and liquefaction of CBM and for the design, construction and 
operation of the LNG plant constructed under the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plan, as said plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank. 
 
(19) 
“SECBMIH” means Shanxi Energy Coal Bed Methane Investment Holding 
Company Ltd., the limited liability company established and operating pursuant 
to 
its 
Charter 
dated 
October 
20, 
2007 
and 
Business 
License  
No.140191105002865 dated October 20, 2007, issued by Taiyuan Municipality 
Industry and Commerce Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
(20) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Project Implementing Entity and SECBMIH pursuant to Section I,  
paragraph 6(a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
supplements to said agreement.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the 
Conversion 
Guidelines.”
19 
 
