 
 
 
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF094498 
 
 
 
Clean Technology Fund  
Loan Agreement 
 
(Private Sector Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated June 9, 2009  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
CTF LOAN NUMBER TF094498 
 
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 9, 2009, entered into between TÜRKİYE SINAİ 
KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş.  (“Borrower” or “TSKB”); and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“IBRD” or “World Bank”), 
acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as an implementing entity of 
the Clean Technology Fund (“CTF”). 
 
(A) Republic of Turkey (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, have requested the World Bank to assist in the financing of Part A of the 
Project;
by an agreement of even date herewith (the IBRD Loan Agreement), the 
World Bank has agreed to make a loan (the IBRD Loan) to the Borrower in the amount 
of two hundred ten million Dollars ($210,000,000) and one hundred nine million six 
hundred thousand Euro (€109,600,000), to assist in financing Part A of the Project, and 
; 
 
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
 
Article II 
Loan 
 
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy million United 
States Dollars ($70,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing Part A of the Project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Loan is funded out of the resources made available to the World Bank as 
implementing entity of the CTF.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard 
Conditions, the Borrower may withdraw the Loan proceeds subject to the 
availability of such funds. The Borrower agrees that only resources made 
available to the World Bank for the purpose of the Loan shall be considered for 
the enforcement of any obligations, claims or liabilities under or in connection 
with the Loan. 
 
2.04. 
The Management Fee payable by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of 
the Standard Conditions, shall be equal to one-quarter of one percent (1/4 of 1%) 
of the Loan.     
 
2.05. 
The Service Charge payable by the Borrower on the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
The Payment Currency is USD. 
 
Article III  
The Project 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall ensure that Part A of the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
 
Article IV  
Termination 
 
4.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Article V 
Borrower’s Representative; Addresses 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative referred to in Section 10.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Borrower. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. 
Meclisi Mebusan Caddesi 
No. 81 
34427 Fındıklı,  
İstanbul 
Turkey 
 
 
 
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
 
 
 
24344.tskb.tr 
 
(90-212) 334-5234 
 
5.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 10.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
 
 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
 
United States of America 
 
 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Orhan Beskok 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Gonca Atici 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  
 
 
 
  DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
acting as an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to help increase privately owned and operated 
energy production from indigenous renewable sources within the market-based 
framework of the Turkish Electricity Market Law, enhance energy efficiency, and 
thereby help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A: Credit Line to TSKB 
 
The establishment and operation of a credit facility for the financing, through the 
provision of Sub-loans and Financing Leases by the Borrower to Sub-project Sponsors, 
enabling such Sub-project Sponsors to finance the costs related to the carrying out of 
Renewable Energy Sub-projects and Energy Efficiency Sub-projects.  
 
 
Part B: Credit Line to TKB 
 
The establishment and operation of a credit facility for the financing, through the 
provision of Sub-loans or Financing Leases by TKB to Sub-project Sponsors, enabling 
such Sub-project Sponsors to finance the costs related to the carrying out of Renewable 
Energy Sub-projects and Energy Efficiency Sub-projects.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
A. 
Implementation 
 
1. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, until the 
completion of the Project, maintain the PIU and ensure that the PIU functions at all times 
in a manner and with staffing and budgetary resources necessary and appropriate for 
Project implementation, and satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content 
satisfactory to the World Bank, shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational 
Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the World Bank.   
 
3. 
The Borrower shall comply with the applicable prudential regulations of the 
Guarantor. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Part A of the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines issued by the World Bank on 
October 15, 2006, which are applicable to all IBRD loans and IDA credits and grants. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months after the end of each calendar 
year during Project implementation, carry out a review of procurement practices used by 
Sub-project Sponsors for procuring goods, works and services for Sub-projects financed 
with the Loan proceeds by an independent consulting firm in accordance with the terms 
of reference agreed with the World Bank. 
 
6. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
make Sub-loans or provide Financing Leases to Sub-project Sponsors on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, including, without 
limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Section I.B of this Schedule 2; 
 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan or Financing Lease  
in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Guarantor and the World 
Bank; 
 
 
(c) 
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying 
out by the Sub-project Sponsors of Sub-projects, in accordance with the Operational 
Manual; and 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
 
 
(d) 
ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental and social 
safeguard review, and dam safety procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, as well 
as with the Environmental Policy Framework and Resettlement Policy Framework. 
 
B. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Financing Leases 
1. 
The principal amount of each Sub-loan or Financing Lease, made out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of this Schedule, shall have a maturity of not less than seven 
(7) years, including a grace period of minimum of one (1) year for a Sub-loan; and have a 
maturity of not less than four (4) years for a Financing Lease. 
 
2. 
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate which shall equal the rate 
specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a spread to cover the Borrower’s 
administrative costs associated with the Loan.  
 
3. 
Each Financing Lease shall be made on terms and conditions, including those 
relating to the schedule of lease payments and other charges determined in accordance 
with the Borrower’s investment and financial leasing policies and practices, satisfactory 
to the World Bank. 
 
4. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree: (a) each Sub-loan or Financing 
Lease or the aggregate principal amount under multiple Sub-loans and Financing Leases 
made to any Renewable Energy Sub-project shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the 
total cost of such Sub-project; and (b) each Sub-loan or Financing Lease or the aggregate 
principal amount under multiple Sub-loans and Financing Leases made to any Energy 
Efficiency Sub-project shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total cost of such 
Sub-project. 
 
5.  
The Borrower shall submit for the World Bank’s approval: (a) the first Energy 
Efficiency Sub-project; (b) the first Renewable Energy Sub-project; and (c) all Sub-
projects which are classified as Category A Sub-projects in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual.  
 
6. 
Each Sub-loan or Financing Lease shall be approved on the basis of:  
 
 
 
(i)  
a description of the Sub-project Sponsor and an appraisal of the 
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;  
 
(ii) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or the  
Financing Lease, including the schedule of amortization of the 
Sub-loan or schedule of lease payments under the Financing 
Lease;  
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
 
 
(iii) 
a business plan incorporating a development plan which shall be 
evaluated by the Borrower in accordance with established 
guidelines for project and credit evaluation set forth in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
 
 
(iv) 
evidence of compliance with the Operational Manual, with the 
Environmental 
Policy 
Framework, 
Resettlement 
Policy 
Framework and Dam Safety Framework; and 
 
 
 
(v)  
such other information as the World Bank or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request. 
 
7. 
(a) 
Sub-loans and Financing Leases shall be made to the Sub-project 
Sponsors which each shall have established, to the satisfaction of  the Borrower, on the 
basis of the Operational Manual, that:  
 
 
 
(i) 
it is a Private Enterprise (as defined below in paragraph (b));  
 
 
 
(ii) 
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying 
out of the Sub-project; 
 
(iii) 
it promotes undertaking an investment aimed at: (aa) utilization 
of renewable energy; or (bb) increase energy efficiency of its 
operations; and 
 
(iv) 
it has a certificate from the relevant local or national authorities 
of 
the 
Guarantor 
about 
compliance 
with 
applicable 
environmental laws and regulations of the Guarantor. 
 
 
(b) 
For purposes of this paragraph, an enterprise shall be considered to be a 
“Private Enterprise” where more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares or other equity 
interest thereof is held by persons or companies other than the Guarantor, any agency or 
subdivision thereof, or any local governmental authority, or entities controlled by the 
Guarantor or such agencies or subdivisions. 
 
8. 
(a) 
Unless otherwise agreed between the World Bank and the Borrower, 
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to the World Bank, to: 
 
 
 
(i) 
be technically feasible and economically, financially and 
commercially viable, as determined based on the ratios set forth 
in the Operational Manual; 
 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 
for Renewable Energy Sub-projects - support energy production 
facilities based on renewable resources (as defined below in this 
paragraph), and for the Energy Efficiency Sub-projects – the 
majority of incremental benefits from the Sub-project will come 
form cost savings in energy consumption;  
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) 
be located in the following river basins: Susurluk; North Aegean; 
Gediz; 
Kucuk 
Menderes; 
Buyuk 
Menderes; 
Western 
Mediterranean; 
Antalya; 
Sakarya; 
Western 
Black 
Sea; 
Yesilirmak; Kizilirmak; Eastern Mediterranean; Konya Kapali; 
Seyhan; Ceyhan; and Eastern Black Sea; 
 
 
 
(iv) 
have at least fifteen percent (15%) Sub-project Sponsor equity 
financing for Renewable Energy Sub-projects, and at least 
twenty five percent (25%) Sub-project Sponsor equity financing 
for the Energy Efficiency Sub-Projects;  
 
(v) 
generate a financial rate of return of at least eight percent (8%); 
and 
 
 
(vi) 
be in compliance with all requirements pertaining to 
environmental protection applicable under the laws and 
regulations of the Guarantor and with the Environmental Policy 
Framework, Resettlement Policy Framework and Dam Safety 
Framework. To that end, the Borrower shall require each Sub-
project Sponsor applying for a Sub-loan to furnish evidence 
satisfactory to the World Bank and the Borrower, showing that 
the Sub-project in respect of which the application has been 
made has been prepared in accordance with such procedures, 
such evidence to include, inter alia, an environmental 
management plan, land acquisition plan and/or resettlement 
action plan, as might be applicable for a Sub-project submitted 
for approval. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of this paragraph “energy production facilities based on 
renewable resources” means the facilities producing electricity or heat based on wind, 
solar, geothermal, wave, tide, biomass, biogas and hydrogen energy; river or canal type 
hydroelectric generation facilities with a capacity less than or equal to 10MW; and 
hydroelectric generation facilities with a reservoir area below 15 square kilometers and 
with a capacity less than or equal to 10MW. 
 
9. 
Sub-loans and Financing Leases shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower 
shall obtain, by written contract with the Sub-project Sponsor or by other appropriate 
 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the World Bank, Guarantor and the 
Borrower, including, in case of any Sub-loan or Financing Lease, the right to: 
 
 
(a) 
require the Sub-project Sponsor to carry out and operate the facilities 
financed under the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and in accordance with the 
provisions of Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other 
than the Borrower, and to maintain adequate records; 
 
 
(b) 
 without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph (a), require the Sub-project Sponsor to carry out and operate the Sub-project 
with due regard to applicable social impact, ecological, environmental and pollution 
control standards and in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
 
 
(c) 
for Sub-projects which need an environmental management plan, or land 
acquisition, or resettlement action plan, require the Sub-project Sponsor to carry out such 
plans in a timely manner; 
 
 
 
(d) 
require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) use such goods, works and services exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Sub-project;  
 
 
(e) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the World Bank or the 
Guarantor, if the World Bank or the Guarantor shall so request, such goods and the sites, 
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; 
 
 
(f) 
require that the Sub-project Sponsor shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice; and without any limitation upon the foregoing, 
such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery 
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or the Financing Lease to the place 
of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely 
usable by the Sub-project Sponsor to replace or repair such goods; 
 
(g) 
obtain all such information as the World Bank or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Sub-project Sponsor and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Sub-project; and  
 
(h) 
suspend and terminate the right of the Sub-project Sponsor to the use of 
the proceeds of the Sub-loan or the Financing Lease upon failure by such Sub-project 
Sponsor to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation  
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Part A of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the 
Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the World Bank.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report. 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.  
 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project are prepared and furnished 
to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar semester, covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each such 
audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement  
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines or 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services  
 
 
Established Private or Commercial Practices. Contracts for works, goods and 
services under Sub-projects shall be awarded in accordance with the established private 
or commercial practices of the Guarantor which have been found acceptable to the World 
Bank and are described in the Operational Manual. 
 
C. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Contracts for works, goods and services under Sub-projects shall be subject to 
Post Review by the World Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions, included in the Disbursement 
Letter, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(Inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  
Sub-Loans and 
Financing Leases 
 
 
69,825,000 
 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(2)       Management Fee 
175,000 
Amount payable in 
accordance with Section 
2.04 of this Agreement and 
Section 4.01(a) of the 
Standard Conditions 
TOTAL  
70,000,000 
 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
under Category (1) unless the Sub-loan or Financing Lease has been 
made in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and 
on terms and conditions referred to in Section I.B of this Schedule.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Repayment Schedule 
 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Loan 
repayable 
(Expressed as a percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 
commencing September 15, 2019  
 
to and including March 15, 2029 
 
 
5% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category A Sub-projects” means Sub-projects which require full environmental 
impact assessment pursuant to the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Dam Safety Policy Framework” means a framework adopted by the Borrower 
which sets forth policies and procedures for ensuring safety standards during 
construction and/or rehabilitation of dams; and such framework constitutes an 
integral part of the Operational Manual. 
6. 
“Disbursement Letter” means the letter dated as of the same date of this 
Agreement, including the additional instructions as referred to in Section IV A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be revised from time to time. 
7. 
“Energy Efficiency Sub-project” means a Sub-project which supports 
investments where the major benefit derives from a reduction in energy usage. 
8. 
“Environmental Policy Framework” means a document adopted by the Borrower 
which sets forth policies and procedures for environmental screening of Sub-
projects, for conducting environmental assessments and specifying requirements 
for environmental mitigation measures to be included in environmental 
management plans; and such document constitutes an integral part of the 
Operational Manual; 
9. 
“Financing Lease” means any transfer of possession of goods by the Borrower to 
a Sub-project Sponsor on the basis of a lease agreement for the carrying out of a  
Sub-project; 
10. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower, setting out 
the operational and administrative procedures in respect of the preparation, 
approval, processing, financing, implementation and supervision of Sub-projects. 
11. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit of the Borrower established by the 
Borrower’s decision on July 25, 2003, or any successor to such unit. 
 
 
 
 
- 16 - 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, revised in October 
2006. 
13. 
“Renewable Energy Sub-project” means the Sub-project which supports 
generation facilities based on renewable resources in accordance with the criteria 
specified in paragraph 8(b) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
excluding hydro projects above 10 MW; 
14. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means  a document  adopted by the Borrower 
which sets forth policies and procedures to be followed in case of land 
acquisition and/or resettlement which might be required for carrying out of a 
Sub-project, including the requirements for preparation of land acquisition plans 
or resettlement action plans; and such document constitutes an integral part of the 
Operational Manual; 
15. 
“Standard Conditions” means the Standard Conditions for Loans Made by the 
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment Funds: Clean Technology Fund and 
Strategic Climate Fund, dated March 18, 2009 with modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
16. 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, for purposes of financing the expenditures incurred by 
a Sub-project Sponsor for goods, works and services under a Sub-Project. 
17. 
 “Sub-project” means a specific project, selected in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, which is proposed to be carried out by a 
Sub-project Sponsor through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-loan or a 
Financing Lease and  which is either the “Renewable Energy Sub-project” (as 
defined above),  or “Energy Efficiency Sub-project” (as defined above). 
18. 
“Sub-project Sponsor” means an enterprise satisfying the appropriate criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual to which the Borrower proposes to make or has 
made a Sub-loan or Financing Lease. 
19. 
“TKB” or “Türkiye Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş.” means a joint-stock company 
established pursuant to the statutes published in Trade Registry Gazette No. 
23849 dated October 17, 1999 (Trade Registry No.32345) which is responsible 
for implementation of Part B of the Project.  
20. 
“TSKB” or “Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş.” means a joint-stock 
company established pursuant to the statutes published in Trade Registry Gazette 
No. 7046 dated June 2, 1950 (Trade Registry No. 42527) which is responsible for 
implementation of Part A of the Project.  
 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
 
 
Section II.  
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
The modifications to the Standard Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
A new Section 3.08 is added to Article III and the remaining Sections in Article 
III are renumbered accordingly: 
 
“Section 3.08. Capitalizing the Management Fee.  If the Loan Agreement provides for 
the financing of the Management Fee out of the proceeds of the Loan, the World Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the 
Effective Date and pay to itself the amount of the Management Fee. “ 
2. 
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows: 
Section 4.01. 
Management Fee.  The Borrower shall pay the World Bank a 
management fee on the Loan at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (“Management 
Fee”).  The Borrower shall elect to pay the Management Fee either: 
 
(a) 
at the rate equal to one-quarter of one percent (1/4 of 1%) of the Loan, in 
which case, the Management Fee shall be paid in one lump sum financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or  
 
 
(b) 
at the rate equal to one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per annum on 
the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, in which case, the Management Fee shall: (i) accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on 
which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account or cancelled; (ii) 
be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date; and (iii) be computed on the 
basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
3. 
The definition of the term “Management Fee” is modified to read as follows: 
“Management Fee” means the management fee specified in the Loan Agreement for the 
purpose of Section 4.01.”  
 
 
