CONFORMED COPY  
 
LOAN NUMBER 7741 GE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third East West Highway Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 18, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7741 GE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 18, 2009, between GEORGIA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and forty seven million 
United States Dollars (US$147,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
4
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: that the Borrower 
shall have failed to notify, and provide adequate information to the Bank before 
entering into a concession agreement for the operation and maintenance of the 
East-West Highway financed under the Project or the Bank shall have raised 
objections to the Borrower entering into such agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:  
 
(a) 
The RD has established the FPU with organization, qualifications and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower has submitted to the Bank the Operations Manual in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
16 Gorgasali Street 
0105 Tbilisi 
Georgia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
995-32-261461 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
5
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By /s/ Kakha Baindurashvili  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Asad Alam 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to contribute to the gradual reduction of 
road transport costs and improve access, ease of transit, and road safety along the central 
part of the Borrower’s East-West corridor; and (b) strengthen the capacity of RD and 
relevant government entities to plan and manage the road network and to improve road 
safety. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Sveneti-Ruisi Road Link
Upgrading the existing E60 East-West Highway from Sveneti to Ruisi to a dual 
carriageway road including: (i) partial rehabilitation of the existing road; (ii) realignment 
and construction of new carriageways; (iii) surface drainage, culverts and underpasses; 
(iv) bridges, including road approaches, particularly a bridge of about 877 meters long 
over the Liakhvi River and an existing railway line; (v) two tunnels of about 800 meters 
long; (vi) safety barriers, road signs and marking; (vii) demolition of existing structures 
and relocation of various utilities; (viii) construction supervision services; and (ix) design 
services for future investments in the road sector, all through the carrying out of works 
and the provision of goods and consultants’ services. 
Part B: Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the RD to improve its operational effectiveness 
through: (i) carrying out a functional analysis for establishing the appropriate 
organizational structure for the RD to meet its current and anticipated future needs; (ii) 
improving the capacity of the RD to plan, design, manage and maintain the road network; 
and (iii) strengthening the RD capacity in environmental monitoring, through provision 
of goods, consultants’ services and training. 
 
2. 
Developing a framework for the introduction of performance based contracts 
(PBC) for main roads’ maintenance, through provision of consultants’ services. 
 
3. 
Improving road safety along the entire E60 East-West Highway corridor by 
preparing and implementing a corridor road safety management plan to cover 
engineering, enforcement, emergency response and publicity campaigns, through the 
provision of goods, consultants’ services, and training. 
 
4. 
Strengthening the curriculum and training at the technical university, including 
provision of training for lecturers, twinning with overseas universities, as well as 
provision of consultants’ services and goods. 
7
Part C: Project Implementation
Institutional support to the RD and the TRRC related to Project implementation, 
audits and Project monitoring and evaluation. 
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the RD with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
public utility, environmental practices and in accordance with the Operations Manual and 
shall provide the RD with the resources and staff necessary for implementing the Project.  
The RD shall be responsible for the overall coordination and oversight of the Project 
implementation. 
2. 
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Project Implementation Agreement, 
the RD shall be assisted in Project-related financial management and disbursement by the 
TRRC.  The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the TRRC with terms of reference, resources 
and staff necessary for proper Project implementation and satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b) require TRRC to carry out the financial management and disbursement for the Project 
in accordance with the Project Implementation Agreement. 
3. 
During Project implementation, the RD shall maintain the FPU with terms of 
reference, resources and staff necessary for proper Project implementation and 
satisfactory to the Bank to assist RD in Project-related procurement, monitoring and 
evaluation and Project reporting. 
4. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of standards for construction, planning and 
design of highways adopted by the European Union (in addition to the national 
standards), acceptable to the Bank, in the design, construction and maintenance of road 
works under the Project. 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available 
for the Project in the Borrower’s annual budget for the duration of the Project. 
6. 
By not later than December 31, 2009, the Borrower shall, through the RD, recruit 
a financial auditor under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
9
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the EIA, EMP, RPF and RAP.  The Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the EIA, EMP, RPF and/or RAP or any provision thereof, without the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, prior to the commencement of works under the Project, 
ensure that: (a) the provisions of the EMP are adequately included in the proposed 
contract(s) for said works; and (b) the owners and users of the land where said works are 
to be implemented are fully compensated in accordance with the provisions of the RAP. 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall, through RD, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, shall include the reporting on the 
status of the implementation of the RAP and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
one month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through RD, maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through RD, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause RD to have its Financial Statements related to the 
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
10 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)       National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in  
 
below: 
 
(i) 
“Open competitive procedures” (i.e. “public tender” rather than “tender”) 
shall be the default rule. A single envelope procedure shall be used for the 
submission of goods, works, or technical services (other than consultants’ 
services).  
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. Advertisements published in foreign  
11 
 
Procurement Method 
language newspapers shall be in compliance with such a 30-day-minimum 
in number of days for bids preparation and submission. 
 
(iii) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.  If registration is 
required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders for reasons unrelated to 
their capacity and resources to successfully perform the contract (e.g., 
mandatory membership in professional organizations, classification, etc). 
Post-qualification shall be conducted to verify that the bidder has the 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract. 
 
(iv) 
Government-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent 
agency of the Government.  Government-owned enterprises will be subject 
to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(v) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample bidding 
documents, including pre-qualification documents, for the procurement of 
goods, works, or technical services (other than consultants' services), and 
such documents shall contain draft contract and conditions of contract 
including clauses on fraud and corruption, audit and publication of award, 
all acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  Bidder’s representatives shall be permitted to attend 
the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be requested without the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
(viii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria expressed in 
monetary terms as defined in the bidding documents, no merit point system 
and no domestic preference shall be used in the evaluation of bids. 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the lowest 
evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiations shall be carried 
out prior to contract award. 
 
(ix) 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
12 
 
Procurement Method 
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is higher than 
the estimated budget for that procurement.  All bids shall not be rejected 
and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(b)       Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b) Least-cost Selection 
 
(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
13 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works, Consultants’ 
 
Services, Training and 
 
Incremental Operating  
 
Costs for the Project 
146,532,500 
80% 
(2) Goods 
      100,000 
80% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
      367,500 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07 
(b) 
of 
the 
General 
Conditions 
(4) Premia for Interest 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Rate Collars 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
147,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: (a) payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$29,400,000 equivalent may be made for 
14 
payments made prior to this date but on or after July 6, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures 
under Category (1) and/or Category (2); and (b) payments made under Category (2) 
unless the Bank has received an acceptable plan for the use of the equipment, including 
staff to receive and use the equipment, methods and procedures for equipment usage, and 
organizational and operational changes required to effectively utilize this equipment. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 
 
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning January 15, 2015 
 
through July 15, 2039 
 
2% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
16 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
17 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“EIA” means the Borrower’s environmental impact assessment, acceptable to the 
Bank dated July 3, 2009, consisting of inter alia: (i) a description of the site 
where construction activities are to be carried out under Part A of the Project and 
the justification for said activities; (ii) the actual or potential environmental 
impact of the construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above; 
and (iii) an environmental management plan setting forth adequate mitigating 
measures and systems required to monitor the implementation of the construction 
activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above and to ensure compliance of 
such activities with said measures with a view to limiting any actual and potential 
adverse environmental impact. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Plan, acceptable to 
the Bank, dated July 3, 2009, which is Chapter 8 of the EIA and is referred to in 
Part C of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, describing the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken 
during the implementation of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
6. 
“FPU” means the Foreign Projects Unit established within RD in accordance 
with Section 5.01(a) of this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
8. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable and necessary incremental 
expenses incurred by the Borrower with respect to Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including the costs of staff salaries (excluding 
salaries of the Borrower’s civil service staff), communication, editing, printing 
and publication, translation, vehicle operation and maintenance, bank charges, 
18 
local travel costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, utilities, equipment and 
supplies. 
 
9. 
“Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s operations manual referred to in 
Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement as such manual may be updated from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 6, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the RD and 
the TRRC, dated August 23, 2004, as amended on July 3, 2009, setting forth the 
obligations of both parties in relation to the Project implementation in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
13. 
“RAP” means the Borrower’s resettlement action plan, dated July 3, 2009, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared and implemented for carrying out the 
Project in accordance with the RPF (as hereinafter defined), to set out, inter alia,
the principles and objectives of the RAP, the affected persons’ eligibility criteria, 
compensation, assistance and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the 
monitoring and reporting arrangements in conformity with the RPF. 
 
14. 
“RD” means the Borrower’s Roads Department of the Ministry of Regional 
Development and Infrastructure responsible for managing the Borrower’s road 
network or any legal successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“RPF” means the Borrower’s resettlement policy framework, acceptable to the 
Bank, dated April 2009, and referred to in Part C of Section I of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, describing the policies, procedures, plans and actions (including 
the resettlement action plan), and institutional measures related to land 
acquisition and other social impacts that may arise during the Project and other 
phases related to the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
16. 
“Training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with 
Project-related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other 
training activities, including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers. 
 
19 
17. 
“TRRC” means the Eurasia Transport Corridor Investment Center/Transport 
Reform and Rehabilitation Center established pursuant to President’s Order No. 
N-161, dated April 21, 2000, or any legal successor thereto. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
20 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
