CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7819-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Montenegro Health System Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 19, 2009 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 19, 2009, between MONTENEGRO (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement or in the Original Financing Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million one hundred thousand 
Euro (EUR 5,100,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MOH in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
ARTICLE IV -TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Stanka Dragojevica 2 
81000 Podgorica 
Montenegro 
 
Facsimile: 
 
382 20 224 450
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Podgorica, Montenegro, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
MONTENEGRO 
 
By /s/ Igor Luksic 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jan-Peter Olters 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to put in place the first steps towards a reformed 
health system in Montenegro, giving priority to increasing capacity for policy planning 
and regulation; stabilizing health financing; and improving primary health care service 
delivery. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A Support for Health Reform Program of the MOH, HIF, IPH and MDA
Provision of consultants’ services, goods, Training and communications support 
to build capacity, help to identify and support best practices in health policy, financing 
and selected areas of service delivery, including: (i) policy development and capacity 
building for the MOH, HIF, IPH and MDA focused on issues of the highest priority for 
the Borrower, including the development of the benefits package, provider payment 
policies and contracting systems for secondary and tertiary care reform; pharmaceutical 
regulation and quality control; and establishment of a quality assurance system; and (ii) 
information system improvements to improve data for contracting, monitoring and 
management of hospital provided services.   
Part B Phased Implementation of Primary Health Care Development
Implementation of policy and plans to develop primary healthcare, consisting of 
policy monitoring and evaluation, provider education, and national investments in the 
primary health care sector, including: (i) technical assistance and Training for the  
monitoring and evaluation of the primary health care reform and adjusting the associated 
policies and regulations; (ii) technical assistance, Training and goods for the development 
and implementation of family medicine specialization training and implementation of the 
primary health care retraining program; and (iii)  support for scaling up of implementation 
of the primary health care reforms, including implementation of patient choice of, and 
registration with, a primary care doctor; implementation of a new contract with these 
doctors, based on a re-defined benefits package and a new payments model; the purchase 
of medical and other equipment for Health Centers around the country; and the 
rehabilitation and expansion of the Health Center in the municipality of Bijelo Polje.     
Part C Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Provision of support for the activities of the Project Management Network, 
including financing of PMN Operating Costs. 
2. 
Strengthening the Borrower’s Project management, monitoring and evaluation 
capacity through the provision of goods and consultant services, including Project audit, 
Training, and financing of TSU Operating Costs. 
6
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
Throughout the duration of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project 
Steering Committee responsible for overall Project oversight and coordination 
with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  
2. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank the Borrower shall maintain during the 
entire term of the Project the PMN and the TSU with staff, resources and terms 
of reference required for Project implementation and satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any 
provision of said Manual without the prior written approval of the Bank. 
4. 
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the TSU shall be 
responsible for day to day procurement and financial management activities for 
the Project under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, and shall perform these 
activities in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, Project 
Operational Manual, Memorandum of Understanding and the Procurement Plan. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the EMP and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive 
any provision of the EMP without the prior written approval of the Bank. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
8
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
9
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding - with the modifications set forth in  
 
paragraph 3 below 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting  
3. 
Modifications to the Borrower’s National Competitive Bidding Procedures: 
 
(i) 
Eligibility: foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(ii) 
Procedures: “Open procedures" shall be followed in all cases. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(iii) 
Pre-qualification: when pre-qualification shall be required for large or 
complex works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised 
in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum 
of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(iv) 
Participation by government-owned enterprises: government-owned 
enterprises in Montenegro shall be eligible to participate in bidding only 
if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
government. Such enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
10 
 
(v) 
Bidding documents: procuring entities shall use the appropriate 
standard bidding documents for the procurement of works which shall 
contain draft contract and conditions of contract, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(vi) 
Submission of bids: bidders may, at their option, deliver bids either in 
person, by courier service, or by mail at any time prior to the deadline set 
the submission of bids. 
 
(vii) 
Bid opening and bid evaluation: bids shall be opened in public and, if 
two envelopes are submitted for technical and price components, both 
shall be opened simultaneously.  The time for the bid opening shall be 
the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter, 
and shall be announced, together with the place for bid opening, in the 
solicitation documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict 
adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not 
more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested 
without the prior approval of the Bank. Contracts shall be awarded to 
qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially 
responsive bid. Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidder or any other bidder. 
 
(viii) 
Price adjustment: civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than 
eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment 
clause. 
 
(ix) 
Rejection of bids: all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited 
without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(x) 
Contracts: all contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by 
authorized signatories of the purchaser and the supplier, and shall contain 
identical terms and conditions of contract to those included in the tender 
documents. 
 
(xi) 
Securities: bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the 
estimated cost of the contract; performance securities shall not exceed 
ten percent (10%). No advance payments shall be made to contractors 
without a suitable advance payment security. The wording of all such 
securities shall be included into the bidding documents and be acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
11 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications 
 
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(c) Single Source Selection 
 
(d) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(e) Least-Cost Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
E. 
Procurement of Operating Costs 
 
Incremental expenditures included in the PMN Operating Costs and TSU Operating 
Costs categories can be procured in accordance with the established Borrower’s 
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
12 
 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Goods, consultants’ 
services, Training, 
PMN Operating Costs 
and TSU Operating 
Costs 
 
4,087,250 
83% 
(2)  Works 
 
1,000,000 
85% 
(3)  Front-end Fee 
      
12,750 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(4)  Premium for Interest 
Rate Cap or Collar  
 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
5,100,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 
 
13 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 1 and October 1 
 
Beginning 
April 
1, 
2015 
 
through October 1, 2019 
 
10% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
14 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
15 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
 “EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan adopted by the Borrower 
and submitted to the Bank on February 13, 2009 and consisting of the set of 
mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures and procedures required under 
the Project in order to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset 
them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement 
said measures. 
 
5. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
6. 
“HIF” means the Health Insurance Fund of Montenegro established pursuant to 
the Decision of the Parliament of Montenegro of July 11, 1990 published in the 
Official Gazette of Montenegro No. 26/1990, as amended, and registered with the 
Commercial Court in Podgorica on February 19, 2003, under the number 8-
0012414/001, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
7. 
“IPH” means the Institute of Public Health of Montenegro established pursuant 
to the Decision of the Government of Montenegro of February 1, 2002  published 
in the Official Gazette of Montenegro No. 3/2002, as amended, and registered 
with the Commercial Court in Podgorica on May 16, 2002, under the number 8-
0005753/001, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
8. 
“MDA” means the Montenegro Drug Agency established pursuant to the 
Decision of the Parliament of Montenegro of December 22, 2004 published in 
the Official Gazette of Montenegro No. 80/2004 and No. 18/2008 as amended 
and registered with the Commercial Court in Podgorica on December 2, 2008 
under the number 10-0000201/001, or any successor or successors hereto. 
16 
 
9. 
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower, or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
 
10. 
“Memorandum of Understanding” means the agreement between the MOH and 
the MOF, dated September 16, 2009 and describing the role and responsibilities 
of the TSU in implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, as the same 
may be amended from time to time. 
 
11. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement for 
the Montenegro Health System Improvement Project between Serbia and 
Montenegro and the International Development Association, dated June 11, 2004 
as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No 3918 YF). 
 
12. 
“Original Project” means the project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
13. 
“PMN” means the Project Management Network established by the MOH to 
coordinate implementation of the Project among health sector organizations 
involved in Project activities. 
 
14. 
“PMN Operating Costs” means incremental expenses incurred by the PMN on 
account of the Project implementation, including costs of office and equipment 
rental and maintenance, utilities, translation and interpretation, communication, 
printing and publications, supplies, local travel costs and field trip expenses 
(including per diem), and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the 
Project implementation, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank. 
 
15. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the operational manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, adopted by the MOH for the purposes of the Original Project and modified 
for the purposes of the Project to be financed by the additional financing, as the 
same may be amended from time to time. 
 
16. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 16, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
18. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service 
17 
 
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment 
rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, 
trainers’ fees, and other training related miscellaneous costs. 
 
19. 
“TSU” means the Technical Services Unit established within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance for the purposes of facilitating the implementation of the 
Project and entrusted with the implementation of day to day procurement and 
financial management activities under the Project pursuant to the Memorandum 
of Understanding. 
 
20. 
“TSU Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the TSU on 
account of Project implementation, including costs of equipment rental and 
maintenance, translation and interpretation, communication, printing and 
publications, supplies, local travel costs and field trip expenses (including per 
diem), and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project 
implementation, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” set forth in the Appendix is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
