CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7730-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 1, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 1, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty three million five hundred 
sixty thousand Dollars ($23,560,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall, through MoPW, cause each Participating PEMDA to 
carry out the Project through its respective Participating PDAM in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
any Participating PEMDA shall have failed to perform any obligation 
under its respective PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
Participating PDAM shall have failed to perform any obligation under its 
respective PDAM Performance Agreement; or  
3
(b) 
any of the PDAM Regulations are amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Borrower, any Participating PEMDA or any Participating PDAM to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: Any event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:  MoPW and 
each Participating PDAM shall have adopted the Project Management Manual, 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P. O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
Jakarta  
           44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
4
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve and expand water supply services in 
the Project Areas by strengthening local water utilities to become operationally efficient 
and financially sustainable.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1.
Kota Bogor. Improving the water supply system for Kota Bogor, including: 
 
(a)  
construction of: (i) a new water treatment plant adjacent to the Dekeng water 
treatment  plant; (ii) two (2) units of rapid sand filters with new filter back 
washing facilities at the Dekeng water treatment plant; (iii) a water reservoir; 
and (iv) water distribution networks and  new household connections; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out a non-revenue water reduction program, including the installation   
of new water meters and replacement of old pipelines. 
 
Part 2.
Kabupaten Kapuas.
Improving the water distribution system of Kabupaten 
Kapuas, including the construction of: (a) a water reservoir; and (b) water 
distribution pipelines. 
 
Part 3.
Kabupaten Muara Enim. Improving the water supply system for Kabupaten 
Muara Enim, including: 
 
(a) 
Upgrading and expanding of the Pelita Sari water treatment plant, including the 
construction of: (i) a water intake structure; (ii) a raw water transmission main; 
and (iii) new water treatment facilities including, but not limited to, additional 
filters and sedimentation tanks to add and improve water treatment capacity; 
 
(b) 
Upgrading of the Talang Jawa water treatment plant, including the construction 
of: (i) a water intake structure; (ii) a raw water transmission main; and (iii) new 
water treatment facilities including, but not limited to, sedimentation tanks and 
booster pumping station to add and improve water treatment capacity; 
 
(c) 
   Improving the water distribution network in the Muara Enim and Tanjung 
Enim urban areas; and 
 
(d) 
   Upgrading the Karang Asam water treatment plant, including the construction 
of: (i) a water intake structure; (ii) a raw water transmission main; and (iii) new 
water treatment facilities, including but not limited to, additional filters and 
sedimentation tanks to add and improve water treatment capacity. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, the PCU 
established on May 11, 2009, and shall ensure that the PCU is provided 
at all times with adequate funds and other resources, and is staffed with 
qualified and experienced personnel with terms of reference and in 
adequate numbers acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower (including 
the PCU Management Consultants) and in all cases as shall be necessary 
to accomplish its functions, responsibilities and objectives.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU shall coordinate Project 
implementation with PIUs; concerned ministries and departments 
including MoPW, MoH, MoHA, MoE and MoF; and Participating 
PDAMs and Participating PEMDAs. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through MoPW, shall provide funding for each Fiscal 
Year during Project implementation for the PCU Management 
Consultants, including a team leader, water supply expert, institutional 
and management expert, financial management specialist, and a 
procurement specialist for each PIU.  The MoPW shall ensure that the 
procurement for the PCU Management Consultants, shall be undertaken 
using the terms of reference agreed between the MoPW and the Bank 
dated May 28, 2009.  The MoPW shall ensure that the PCU Management 
Consultants are engaged by no later than September 30, 2009, and 
MoPW shall present the final PCU Management Consultants staffing to 
the Bank for no objection.  The MoPW shall ensure that the staffing of 
the PCU Management Consultants shall be at all times acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank.  
 
(d) 
The Borrower, through MoPW, shall provide funding for each Fiscal 
Year during Project implementation for the Construction Supervision 
Consultant for each PIU.  The MoPW shall ensure that the procurement 
of each Construction Supervision Consultant shall be undertaken using 
the terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, dated 
May 28, 2009. The MoPW shall ensure that each Construction 
Supervision Consultant is engaged by no later than September 30, 2009, 
and MoPW shall present each final Construction Supervision Consultants 
staffing to the Bank for no objection.  The MoPW shall ensure that each 
7
Construction Supervision Consultant shall be at all times acceptable to 
the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through each Participating PEMDA, ensure that 
each Participating PDAM shall establish, prior to the commencement of 
Project activities by such Participating PDAM, and thereafter maintain 
until completion of the Project, a PIU responsible for implementation of 
the Project in accordance with the Project Management Manual.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the mandate, composition and terms of 
reference of each PIU shall be acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, 
and shall include technical experts/engineers, directors of the technical 
and financial departments, and the procurement specialist for such PIU 
from the PCU Management Consultants and a Construction Supervision 
Consultant.  The Borrower shall ensure that each such PIU is provided at 
all times with adequate funds and other resources, and with qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate numbers, acceptable to the Bank and 
the Borrower and in all cases as shall be necessary to accomplish its 
functions, responsibilities and objectives.  
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall adopt, and, through each Participating PEMDA, shall 
cause each respective Participating PDAM to adopt, the Project 
Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, prior to 
the commencement of any Project activities in each Participating 
PEMDA and Participating PDAM, respectively.   
 
(b) 
The Project Management Manual shall include: (i) implementation 
arrangements; (ii) the procurement procedures set forth in Section III of 
this Schedule 2 and standard procurement documentation; (iii) reporting 
requirements, financial management procedures, expenditure verification 
procedures, and audit arrangements and procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Section II of this Schedule 2; (iv) annual budget and work 
plan procedures; (v) monitoring and evaluation criteria; (vi) the 
Environmental Management Plans; (vii) each LARAP; and (viii) the 
Anti-Corruption Action Plan, in each case acceptable to the Bank and the 
Borrower.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, through MoPW, cause each Participating PEMDA 
to cause each Participating PDAM to implement its respective Part of the 
Project in accordance with the Project Management Manual. 
 
(d) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not waive, 
amend or abrogate, or allow any Participating PEMDA or Participating 
PDAM to waive, amend or abrogate, any provision of the Project 
Management Manual, including the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, the 
8
Environmental Management Plans, any LARAP, or the Procurement 
Plan contained therein, without the prior agreement of the Bank and the 
Borrower. 
 
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall make funds available out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1), Category (2) and  
Category (3) of the table in paragraph 2 of Section IV of this Schedule 2 
to each Participating PDAM by: (i) entering into a PEMDA Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement with each Participating PEMDA for the on-lending to 
such Participating PEMDA of a portion of the proceeds of the Loan for 
the purpose of such Participating PEMDA providing financing to its 
respective Participating PDAM for activities under the Project; and       
(ii) causing each Participating PEMDA and each respective Participating 
PDAM to enter into a PDAM Performance Agreement pursuant to which 
the Participating PDAM shall carry out its respective activities under the 
Project in accordance with the Project Management Manual, in each case 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.   
 
(b) 
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 4(a) above, the terms 
and conditions of each PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall 
include the following terms and conditions, as appropriate: 
 
(i) 
the proceeds of such PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall 
be provided to the respective Participating PDAM in accordance 
with this Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
the amount to be provided under each PEMDA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement shall be Rupiah denominated; 
 
(iii) 
the amount to be provided under each PEMDA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement shall not exceed the equivalent US Dollar amount 
allocated to such PEMDA Table in Section IV of this  
Schedule 2;   
 
(iv) 
each Participating PEMDA shall repay the principal amount of 
Rupiah withdrawn and shall pay interest on the principal amount 
withdrawn and outstanding of each PEMDA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement at an annual rate not to exceed the rate applicable to 
this Agreement plus a percentage to be agreed in the PEMDA 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;    
 
(v) 
the repayment period of each PEMDA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement shall be at least 24.5 years and shall include a grace 
period of at least 9 years;  
 
9
(vi) 
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the rights of 
each beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Loan upon such 
beneficiary’s failure to perform its obligations under such 
agreement; and the right of the Borrower and the Bank to inspect 
the portion of the Project and any relevant records and 
documents and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 4(a) above each 
Participating PEMDA and each Participating PDAM shall agree in its 
respective PDAM Performance Agreement as follows: 
 
(i) 
to undertake its respective activities under the Project in 
accordance with the Project Management Manual and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds 
other than the Borrower;  
 
(ii) 
to include the right of the Participating PEMDA to suspend or 
terminate the rights of each beneficiary to use the proceeds of the 
Loan upon such beneficiary’s failure to perform its obligations 
under such agreement; and the right of the Borrower and the 
Bank to inspect the Project and any relevant records and 
documents and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing; 
 
(iii) 
agreements on financial indicators, cost recovery tariffs and the 
relevant performance indicators, in each case acceptable to the 
Bank and the Borrower;  
(iv) 
the PDAM Performance Agreement between PEMDA Muara 
Enim and PDAM Muara Enim shall include a provision that the 
proceeds of the PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement for 
PEMDA Muara Enim shall be provided to PDAM Muara Enim 
as an equity contribution; 
(v) 
the PDAM Performance Agreement between PEMDA Kapuas 
and PDAM Kapuas shall include a provision that the proceeds of 
the PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement for PEMDA Kapuas 
shall be provided to PDAM Kapuas as an equity contribution; 
and 
(vi) 
the PDAM Performance Agreement between PEMDA Kota 
Bogor and PDAM Kota Bogor shall include a provision that the 
10 
 
proceeds of the PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement for 
PEMDA Kota Bogor shall be on-lent to PDAM Kota Bogor on 
terms and conditions at least as beneficial with respect to 
payment of principal and interest and repayment period as set out 
in the PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement for PEMDA Kota 
Bogor. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each PEMDA Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any PEMDA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
(e) 
Each Participating PEMDA shall exercise its rights under each PDAM 
Performance Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any PDAM Performance 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
B. 
Safeguards 
1. 
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through each Participating 
PEMDA,  ensure that each respective Participating PDAM shall implement the 
LARAP applicable to such Participating PDAM in accordance with the Project 
Management Manual, including: 
 
(a)  
taking all appropriate measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of 
land or assets of people and to avoid the displacement of such people;  
 
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of residents is 
unavoidable for a Project activity, ensuring that all Displaced Persons 
thereunder shall have been compensated and provided with resettlement 
and rehabilitation measures prior to the implementation of such Project 
activity; 
 
(c) 
in the event that there are two hundred (200) or more Displaced Persons 
as a result of a Project activity:  
 
(i) 
preparing a LARAP and furnishing such plan to the Bank for 
approval; and  
 
11 
 
(ii) 
prior to implementing the Project activity, ensuring that all 
Displaced Persons shall have been compensated in accordance 
with the provisions of such LARAP; and 
 
(d) 
in the event that there are fewer than two hundred (200) Displaced 
Persons as a result of a Project activity:  
 
(i) 
preparing an abbreviated LARAP and furnishing such plan to the 
Bank for approval; and  
 
(ii) 
prior to the carrying out of the Project activity, ensuring that all 
Displaced Persons shall have been compensated in accordance 
with the provisions of such abbreviated LARAP. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through each Participating PEMDA, ensure that each 
respective Participating PDAM shall: 
 
(a) 
take all measures and actions set out in the Environmental Management 
Plan for the elimination or offsetting of adverse environmental impacts 
under the Project;  and 
 
(b) 
include in requests for proposals and bidding documents for the Project 
all requirements of the Environmental Management Plan relevant to the 
activities that are the subject of such proposals/bidding documents. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall include in each Project Report provided for in paragraph 1(b) 
of Section II(A) of this Schedule 2, a summary of any environmental issues 
encountered and proposed mitigation measures developed and/or implemented 
during the six (6) month period covered in such Project Report. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Financial Ratios 
 
1. 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio for PDAM Kota Bogor 
(a)  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree commencing with the Fiscal 
Year ending December 31, 2010, the Borrower, through PEMDA Kota 
Bogor, shall ensure that PDAM Kota Bogor shall not incur any debt 
unless the net cash revenues of the PDAM Kota Bogor for the Fiscal 
Year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence, or for a later 
twelve (12) month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, 
12 
 
whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated 
maximum debt service requirements of the PDAM Kota Bogor for any 
succeeding Fiscal Year on all debt of the PDAM Kota Bogor, including 
the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this paragraph 1: 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the PDAM Kota 
Bogor maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date 
on which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, adjusted to take account of the PDAM Kota 
Bogor’s tariffs and fees in effect at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect 
during the twelve (12) month period to which such 
revenues relate; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, depreciation, 
interest payments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes. 
 
(iv) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(v) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing Bank Indonesia rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
Before March in each of its Fiscal Years commencing in January 2010, 
the Borrower shall ensure that PEMDA Kota Bogor shall, on the basis of 
13 
 
forecasts prepared by PDAM Kota Bogor and satisfactory to the Bank 
and the Borrower, review whether it would meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following 
Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion. 
 
(d) 
If any such review shows PDAM Kota Bogor would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall ensure that PEMDA Kota Bogor and 
PDAM Kota Bogor shall promptly take all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
tariffs and fees) in order to meet such requirements. 
 
2. 
Operating Ratio    
 
(a)  
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through each 
Participating PEMDA, shall ensure that each respective Participating 
PDAM shall maintain, for each of its Fiscal Years commencing with its 
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 2010, a ratio of total operating 
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 1.0. 
 
(b) 
Before March in each of its Fiscal Years commencing in January 2010, 
the Borrower shall ensure that each Participating PEMDA shall, through 
the relevant PDAM Performance Agreement, ensure that the 
Participating PDAM shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the 
Participating PDAM and satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) 
in respect of such year and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall 
furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Participating PDAM would not meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered 
by such review, the Borrower shall ensure that the respective 
Participating PEMDA shall, through the relevant PDAM Performance 
Agreement, ensure that the relevant Participating PDAM shall promptly 
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs and fees) in order to ensure that the 
Participating PDAM shall meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this paragraph 2: 
 
(i) 
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 5% 
14 
 
per annum of the average current gross value of the Participating 
PDAM’s fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to 
the Bank, and including interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(ii) 
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
 
(iii) 
The average current gross value of the Participating PDAM’s 
fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one half of the 
sum of the gross value of the Participating PDAM’s fixed assets 
in operation at the beginning and at the end of the Fiscal Year, as 
valued from time to time in accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Bank and the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through each 
Participating PEMDA, shall ensure that, for each respective Participating PDAM:  
 
(a) 
the Participating PEMDA shall provide funds to the relevant 
Participating PDAM budgets, in such amounts as are necessary to ensure 
that the Participating PDAM shall meet the financial covenants set out in 
the preceding paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Section I(C), until the Closing 
Date; and  
 
(b) 
the Participating PEMDA shall not withdraw dividends from the relevant 
Participating PDAM until the Closing Date. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
(1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through each Participating PEMDA, shall ensure that 
each PIU shall prepare a report covering each calendar semester during 
Project implementation in accordance with the Project Management 
Manual and shall submit such semi-annual report to the PCU in a timely 
manner for inclusion in the relevant Project Report.   
 
15 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through each Participating PEMDA, shall ensure that each 
Participating PDAM shall review with the Borrower and the Bank, by  
January 31 and July 31 in each year during Project implementation, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report most recently furnished to the Borrower 
and the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section II(A) and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of such report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2012 a mid-
term report integrating the results of: (i) the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section II(A) of this 
Schedule 2; and (ii) the audit reports performed pursuant to paragraph 3 
of Section II(B) of this Schedule 2, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the remainder of the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall review with the Bank, by June 30, 2013, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) 
of this paragraph 3, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
such report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and make publicly 
available such report at the same time as it is furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to this sub-paragraph. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain and, through each Participating PEMDA, cause 
each Participating PDAM to maintain, a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one 
(1) month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through each Participating PEMDA, ensure that each 
respective Participating PDAM shall have its financial statements and the 
financial statements for the Project accounts audited annually by an auditor 
16 
 
acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower and in accordance with the 
requirements of the Project Management Manual. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the 
Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that auditing activities described in the foregoing 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Section II(B) are carried out in accordance with terms 
of reference agreed with the Bank. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall make publicly available in a manner acceptable to the Bank 
and the Borrower all final audit reports described in paragraph 3 of this  
Section II(B). 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
17 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures set 
forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2. 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)   Direct Contracting 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
D. 
Additional Procurement Procedures 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make publicly available on the website of MoPW and 
promptly upon request by a member of the public (subject to payment of a 
reasonable fee to cover the cost of printing and delivery) the Procurement Plan, 
including all updates thereto, and each opportunity for procurement thereunder.     
 
2. 
The Borrower shall establish, maintain and publish on the MoPW website a 
complaints handling system satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and report 
on any corrupt or fraudulent practices. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
18 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods and Works under  
Part 1 of the Project  
 
9,060,000 
 
85% 
(2) Goods and Works under  
Part 2 of the Project  
 
4,150,000 
 
100% 
(3) Goods and Works under  
Part 3 of the Project  
 
10,350,000 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
23,560,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for expenditures under Category 1 until the PEMDA Kota Bogor shall 
have entered into a PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the 
PEMDA Kota Bogor and PDAM Kota Bogor have entered into a PDAM 
Performance Agreement, in each case acceptable to the Bank and the 
Borrower; or 
 
(c) 
for expenditures under Category 2 until the PEMDA Kabupaten Kapuas 
shall have entered into a PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the 
PEMDA Kabupaten Kapuas and PDAM Kabupaten Kapuas have entered 
into a PDAM Performance Agreement, in each case acceptable to the 
Bank and the Borrower; or 
 
(d) 
for expenditures under Category 3 until the PEMDA Kabupaten Muara 
Enim shall have entered into a PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
the PEMDA Kabupaten Muara Enim and PDAM Kabupaten Muara 
Enim have entered into a PDAM Performance Agreement acceptable to 
the Bank and the Borrower. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 
 
19 
 
ANNEX to Schedule 2 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
Clarifications Relating to National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
1. 
General
The procedures to be followed for NCB shall be those set forth in Presidential 
Decree No. 80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the clarifications and 
modifications described in the following paragraphs required for compliance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” dated May 2004  and revised in October 2006 (the Guidelines). 
 
2. 
Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a condition 
for participation in the bidding process. 
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders (i) shall be 
allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process, and (ii) shall not 
be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-
qualification. 
 
3. 
Pre-qualification
(a) 
Pre-qualification shall not used for simple goods and works.  Normally, post-
qualification shall be used.  Pre-qualification shall be required only for large or 
complex works with the prior ‘no objection’ of the Bank.  When pre-qualification 
shall be required: 
 
(b) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification, 
and  
 
(c) 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
 
4. 
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to 
form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods 
as a condition of award of the contract. 
 
20 
 
5. 
Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and local 
regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement 
procedures under the Loan. 
 
6. 
Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national 
daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents 
up to twenty-four (24) hours prior the deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are 
willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit responsible for 
procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of 
the contract. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity for registering. 
 
7. 
Bid Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or 
bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids, and if bids are invited in two (2) envelopes, both envelopes (technical and 
price) shall be opened at the same time. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the 
bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, 
non-substantial deviations. 
 
21 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s 
estimate and budget ceiling without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding shall not be 
carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
22 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
November 01, 2018 
2.17 
May 01, 2019 
2.22 
November 01, 2019 
2.28 
May 01, 2020 
2.34 
November 01, 2020 
2.40 
May 01, 2021 
2.46 
November 01, 2021 
2.52 
May 01, 2022 
2.58 
November 01, 2022 
2.64 
May 01, 2023 
2.71 
November 01, 2023 
2.78 
May 01, 2024 
2.85 
November 01, 2024 
2.92 
May 01, 2025 
2.99 
November 01, 2025 
3.07 
May 01, 2026 
3.14 
November 01, 2026 
3.22 
May 01, 2027 
3.30 
November 01, 2027 
3.38 
May 01, 2028 
3.47 
November 01, 2028 
3.56 
May 01, 2029 
3.65 
November 01, 2029 
3.74 
May 01, 2030 
3.83 
November 01, 2030 
3.93 
May 01, 2031 
4.02 
23 
 
November 01, 2031 
4.12 
May 01, 2032 
4.23 
November 01, 2032 
4.33 
May 01, 2033 
4.44 
November 01, 2033 
4.71 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
24 
 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
25 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Action Plan” means a stand-alone chapter of the Project 
Management Manual giving details of a program of actions, measures and 
policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all its forms 
under the Project, including enhanced information disclosure provisions, civil 
society oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with the risks 
associated with collusion, forgery and fraud, a complaint handling mechanism, 
and an appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies in each case giving effect to 
the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Bank Indonesia” means the central bank of the Borrower. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Construction Supervision Consultant” means each consultant procured and 
financed using the Borrower’s own resources and not out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, providing construction supervision services to each Participating PDAM as 
set out in paragraph 1(d) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in 
accordance with the terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank dated May 28, 2009. 
 
6. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plans” means each of the plans for Kota Bogor 
(dated and adopted by the Borrower on January 15, 2007), and Kabupaten 
Kapuas (dated and adopted by the Borrower on April 19, 2007), setting forth the 
measures to be taken during the implementation of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project to 
eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts of such implementation or to 
reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, and setting forth the actions needed to 
26 
 
implement such measures, as such plan may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank.  
 
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, ending December 31 in each 
year. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008).  
 
10. 
 “LARAP” mean each of the land acquisition and resettlement action plans for 
the compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons 
developed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section I(B) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for Kabupaten Muara Enim, and for Kabupaten 
Kapuas, each dated July 17, 2007; and “LARAPs” refers to more than one 
LARAP.  
 
11. 
“MoE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment or any successor thereto.  
 
12. 
“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“MoH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health or any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“MoHA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs or any successor 
thereto. 
 
15. 
“MoPW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works or any successor 
thereto. 
 
16. 
“Part” means each Part of the Project as described in Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Participating PDAM” means each of PDAM Kota Bogor, PDAM Kabupaten 
Kapuas and PDAM Kabupaten Muara Enim, in each case upon the satisfaction 
by such PDAM of the requirement that it enter into a PDAM Performance 
Agreement in accordance with paragraph 4(c) of Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and “Participating PDAMs” means more than one Participating 
PDAM. 
 
18. 
“Participating PEMDA” means each of PEMDA Kota Bogor, PEMDA 
Kabupaten Kapuas and PEMDA Kabupaten Muara Enim, in each case upon the 
satisfaction by such PEMDA of the requirement that it enter into a PEMDA 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and a PDAM Performance Agreement in accordance 
with paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c) of Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
and “Participating PEMDAs” more than one Participating PEMDAs. 
27 
 
19. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit described in paragraph 1 of  
Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement responsible for the coordination 
and monitoring of Project activities. 
 
20. 
“PCU Management Consultants” means the firm of consultants, procured and 
financed using the Borrower’s own resources and not out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, providing project management services to the PCU as set out in  
paragraph 1(c) of Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in 
accordance with the terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank dated May 28, 2009. 
 
21. 
“PDAM” means a perusahaan daerah air minum, a semi-autonomous local water 
supply enterprise established and operating in a municipality of the Borrower 
under the jurisdiction of the relevant local government (PEMDA) pursuant to the 
provisions of the PDAM Regulations. 
 
22. 
“PDAM Kota Bogor” means the PDAM operating in the territory of PEMDA 
Kota Bogor. 
 
23. 
“PDAM Kabupaten Kapuas” means the PDAM operating in the territory of 
PEMDA Kabupaten Kapuas. 
 
24. 
“PDAM Muara Enim” means the PDAM operating in the territory of PEMDA 
Kabupaten Muara Enim. 
 
25. 
“PDAM Performance Agreement” means each agreement between a 
Participating PEMDA and the Participating PDAM operating in the territory of 
such PEMDA, pursuant to which such Participating PEMDA shall make 
available, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, in 
accordance with paragraph 4(c) of Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
the proceeds of the relevant PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement to such 
Participating PDAM to finance activities under Part 1 of the Project for the 
Participating PDAM 
 
26. 
“PDAM Regulations” means the Borrower’s Law No.5 of 1962, Law No.5 of 
1974, Decree No.26 of 1975 of MOHA, and Joint Decree of MOHA No.3 of 
1984 and KIMPRASWIL No.26/KPTS of 1984. 
 
27. 
“PEMDA” means a pemerintah daerah, a local government of the Republic of 
Indonesia.  
 
28. 
“PEMDA Kabupaten Kapuas” means the PEMDA in Kabupaten Kapuas. 
 
29. 
“PEMDA Kota Bogor” means the PEMDA in Kota Bogor. 
 
28 
 
30. 
“PEMDA Kabupaten Muara Enim” means the PEMDA in Kabupaten Muara 
Enim. 
 
31. 
“PEMDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means each agreement between the 
Borrower and a Participating PEMDA pursuant to which the Borrower shall 
make available a loan, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and the 
Borrower, in accordance with paragraph 4(b) of Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to such Participating 
PEMDA in the table in paragraph 2 of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement to finance, pursuant to a PDAM Performance Agreement, activities 
under Part 1 of the Project for the Participating PDAM in the jurisdiction of such 
Participating PEMDA. 
 
32. 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit described in paragraph 2 of 
Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement within each Participating PDAM, 
responsible for carrying out those Project implementation activities assigned to 
such Participating PDAM in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; and 
“PIUs” means collectively two or more of such PIUs. 
 
33. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
34. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 28, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of such paragraphs. 
 
35. 
“Project Areas” means list Participating PDAM. 
 
36. 
“Project Management Manual” means the manual setting out the implementation 
and management arrangements for the Project, acceptable to the Bank and the 
Borrower, as described in paragraph 3 of Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
29 
 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
2. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:  
 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows:
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”
