CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7707-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Shanghai Urban Environment Project, Phase III) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 9, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
September 
9, 
2009, 
between 
PEOPLE’S  
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions 
or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million dollars 
($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency 
Conversion 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
provisions 
of  
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter 
of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a 
rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of 
the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE IV – TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The Project is the third phase of the Shanghai Urban Environment Program.  The 
objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Shanghai Municipality in improving its 
resource and environmental sustainability in the core and suburban areas through 
strategic priority investments and selective institutional reforms in the water and 
wastewater sectors. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1. Water Supply and Management  
 
Construction of raw water transmission pipelines and booster pumping stations in 
Pudong New District and Nanhui District of Shanghai (collectively, “Nanhui 
Conveyor”) to enable water from Qing Cao Sha Reservoir (under construction) to 
be supplied to the outer metropolitan areas in southeastern Shanghai 
Municipality.  
 
Part 2. Wastewater Management  
 
Construction of trunk sewers, pumping stations and associated facilities in the 
Puxi area to extend the area of service by the existing Bailonggang Wastewater 
Treatment Plant to the south. 
 
Part 3. District Environment Management Program 
 
Provision of financing for environment-related infrastructure investment sub-
projects in suburban districts through the existing District Financing Vehicle 
(“DFV”) and strengthening of DFV’s institutional and operational capacities to 
provide such financing.  
 
Part 4. Institutional Strengthening  
 
(a) 
Carrying out of studies, training, study tours and workshops to support water 
sector policy and institutional reforms, including: (i) introduction of performance 
benchmarking and economic regulation methods in the water sector; (ii) use of 
water demand management as a means to increase efficiency in the use of water 
resources; and (iii) improvement of the security of water supply. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of studies, training, study tours, and workshops to support the 
institutional development of SCC and its subsidiary companies, including: 
(i) improvement of capability in project management of urban infrastructure 
6
investments; (ii) reviewing the feasibility of adopting an asset management 
system; and (iii) optimization of the operation and management of water and 
wastewater systems by SCC’s water sector subsidiaries. 
 
Part 5. Resettlement  
 
Carrying out resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in connection 
with the implementation of Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the Project. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall be 
recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace period of 
five (5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex C of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement. Each Project Report shall cover a six-month period and 
shall be furnished to the Bank by April 30 (covering the preceding September 1 
through February 28) and October 31 (covering the preceding March 1 through 
August 31) each year, starting April 30, 2010.  
 
8
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank by not 
later than February 28 and August 31 each year, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the preceding calendar semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
9
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding 
of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with 
the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that 
are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum 
of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date 
of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the 
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there 
shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
10
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall 
not be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in 
the form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose 
bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to 
the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated 
cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition 
of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as 
originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are 
11
 
not a dependent agency of the agency conducting the 
procurement. 
 
(xii) 
All bids should not be rejected solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence.   
 
(xiii) The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open access website and shall identify the name and offered 
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) Shanghai shall have in place provisions for bidders to protest. 
 
(b) 
Shopping for the procurement of goods 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) 
Single-source Selection 
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e)  
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
12
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods and civil works under Part 1 
of the Project to be carried out by 
QCSC and under Part 2 of the 
Project to be carried out by SMSC 
166,170,000 
80% 
(2)  Goods and civil works under Part 3 
of the Project to be carried out by 
CEAM 
29,930,000 
100% 
(3)  Consultants’ services, training and 
study tours under Part 4 of the 
Project 
3,400,000 
100% 
13
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of 
the General 
Conditions 
(5)  Premium for Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of 
this Agreement and 
Section 4.05(c) of 
the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
under each of Categories (1) and (2) until the Bank shall have notified 
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of its receipt of the 
following and a legal opinion for each Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
confirming that the said agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding on said parties in 
accordance with its terms: 
 
(i) 
with respect to Category (1), a copy of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement entered into between the Project Implementing Entity 
and QCSC and a copy of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered 
into between the Project Implementing Entity and SMSC, each 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, paragraph D.1 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement; and 
 
14
 
(ii) 
with respect to Category (2), a copy of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement entered into between the Project Implementing Entity 
and CEAM, satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, paragraph D.1 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 
15
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2014  
 
through April 15, 2039 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
16
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
17
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means an enterprise to which CEAM proposes to make Sub-
project Financing; and “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such beneficiaries. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“CEAM” means the Shanghai Chengtou Environmental Asset Management 
Company Limited, a state-owned limited liability company, established and 
operating pursuant to its Charter dated May 20, 2008, and to Business License 
No. 310115000869060 dated October 24, 2008, issued by Shanghai Municipal 
Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
5. 
“CEAM Operations Manual” means the manual dated May 22, 2005, as amended 
on September 25, 2008, and referred to in Section II, paragraph 10 of Annex A to 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement; as said manual may be revised from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
7. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
8. 
“District Financing Vehicle” means that district financing vehicle established by 
Shanghai Chengtou Environmental Asset Management Company Limited under 
Part D of the Shanghai Urban Environment Project, Phase II (Loan Number 
4801-CHA) to support and finance environment-related infrastructure investment 
sub-projects in suburban districts. 
 
18
 
9. 
“Environment Management Plans” means, collectively, the following plans 
which set out with respect to the Project, measures for the protection of the 
environment and, where applicable, conservation of and mitigation against 
adverse impact on natural habitats or their functions, as well as administrative 
and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said 
plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank: 
(a) 
the Environment Management Plan of Nanhui Conveyor Project dated 
September 28, 2008, for investments under Part 1 of the Project and the 
treatment and disposal of sludge generated by water treatment plants;  
 
(b) 
the Qing Cao Sha Environment Assessment Summary/Update dated 
October 22, 2008, which includes an environment mitigation plan for 
mitigating the ecological impact of constructing a reservoir on wetland 
habitat with respect to the Qing Cao Sha Related Activity;  
 
(c) 
 the Environment Management Plan of Bailonggang Sewerage System 
Project dated October 12, 2008, for investments under Part 2 of the 
Project and the Pudong Section Related Activity; and 
 
(d) 
the environment management plans prepared pursuant to Section I, 
paragraph C.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, also known 
as Sub-project EMPs.  
 
“Environment Management Plan” means, individually, any of said Environment 
Management Plans. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated April 15, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Project Companies” means, collectively, CEAM, QCSC, and SMSC. 
 
19
 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Shanghai Municipality and 
any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“Pudong Section Resettlement Policy Framework” means the resettlement policy 
framework dated October 9, 2008, for the Pudong Section Related Activity 
defined in paragraph 17 of this Appendix, which framework sets out the policies 
and procedures for the acquisition of land and other assets, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons and for the preparation of 
resettlement action plans whenever required, as said framework may be amended 
from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
16. 
“QCSC” means Shanghai Qing Cao Sha Investment Construction and 
Development Company Limited, a state-owned limited liability company, 
established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated August 14, 2008, and to 
Business License No. 310230000261225 dated December 28, 2007, issued by 
Shanghai Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto.  
 
17. 
“Related Activities” means, collectively:  
 
(a) 
The construction of the Qing Cao Sha Reservoir and associated facilities 
to supply raw water to the Nanhui Conveyor under Part 1 of the Project, 
which include the following main structures: a reservoir; pipelines on 
Changxing Island; a raw water tunnel conveyor crossing the Yangtze 
River to the mainland of Shanghai Municipality; and pumping stations 
and pipelines on the mainland that will connect to the Nanhui Raw Water 
Conveyor (“Qing Cao Sha Related Activity”). 
 
(b) 
The construction of trunk sewers and associated facilities in the Pudong 
area to extend service of the existing Bailonggang Wastewater Treatment 
Plant to the south, as well as the operation of and treatment and disposal 
of sludge generated by said treatment plant (“Pudong Section Related 
Activity”). 
 
Related Activity means, individually, any of said Related Activities. 
 
18. 
“Renminbi” means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
19. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, following plans which set out 
the principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, 
and the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on 
account of the Project, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank:  
 
20
 
(a) 
the Resettlement Action Plan on Nanhui Water Transportation and 
Associated Engineering of Shanghai Qing Cao Sha Raw Water Project 
dated November 3, 2008, prepared on behalf of Shanghai with respect to 
the implementation of Part 1 of the Project and the Qing Cao Sha Related 
Activity; 
 
(b) 
the Puxi Section Project Resettlement Action Plan dated November 3, 
2008, prepared on behalf of Shanghai with respect to the implementation 
of Part 2 of the Project; and 
 
(c) 
the resettlement action plans prepared pursuant to Section I,  
paragraph  C.1(c) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means, individually, any of said Resettlement Action 
Plans. 
 
20. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of:  
 
(a) 
CEAM, Parts 3 and 5 of the Project;  
 
(b) 
QCSC, Parts 1 and 5 of the Project; and 
 
(c) 
SMSC, Parts 2 and 5 of the Project. 
 
21. 
“SCC” means the Shanghai Chengtou Corporation, a state-owned company 
established in 1992 as an investment corporation to raise funds on behalf of 
Shanghai Municipality, and through its subsidiary companies, implement projects 
in the infrastructure sector including, sewerage, road, water, and landscaping 
sectors in the core urban area of Shanghai.   
 
22. 
“Shanghai” means the Borrower’s Shanghai Municipality, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
23. 
“Shanghai Urban Environment Program” means the program described in the 
February 7, 2002, letter from Shanghai Municipality to the Bank, which program 
is designed to improve urban environmental conditions in an integrated and 
sustainable manner throughout Shanghai and to increase access to environmental 
services in poorer and less well-served areas within Shanghai so as to foster 
sustainable growth and improve the living conditions of its population. 
 
24. 
“SMSC” means the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company Limited, a state-
owned limited liability company, established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter dated March 8, 2008, and to Business License No. 310108000132785 
dated February 10, 2008, issued by Shanghai Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto.  
21
 
25. 
“Sub-project” means a specific investment project selected for financing under 
Part 3 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section II,  
paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of Annex A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; 
and “Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Sub-projects. 
 
26. 
“Sub-project EMPs” means, collectively, the environment management plans 
prepared pursuant to Section I, paragraph C.2(b) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement; and “Sub-project EMP” means, individually, any of the Sub-project 
EMPs. 
 
27. 
“Sub-project Environment Assessment Framework” means the Environment 
Assessment Framework under Part 3 of the Project, dated December 2004, as 
revised on September 25, 2008, and referred to in Section I, paragraph  C.2(b) of 
the Schedule and paragraph 5(a) of Annex B of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, which sets out the policies and procedures for environment 
assessment and preparation of environment mitigation plans in respect of Sub-
projects, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said plans, as said framework may be revised from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank.  
 
28. 
“Sub-project Financing” means financing made available to a Beneficiary out of 
the proceeds of the loan to finance part of the cost of the goods and works 
required for a Sub-project. 
 
29. 
“Sub-project Financing Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be 
entered into between CEAM and each of the Beneficiaries pursuant to Section II, 
paragraph 11(b) of Annex A of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said 
agreements; and “Sub-project Financing Agreement” means, individually, any of 
said Sub-project Financing Agreements. 
 
30. 
“Sub-project RAPs” means, collectively, the resettlement action plans in regard 
to Part 3 of the Project that are prepared pursuant to the provisions of Section I, 
paragraph C.1(c) of the Schedule and paragraph 5(b) of Annex B of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement; and “Sub-project RAP” means, individually, any of 
said Sub-project RAPs. 
 
31. 
“Sub-project Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Policy Framework for 
Resettlement and Land Acquisition under Part 3 of the Project, dated  
March 1, 2005, as revised on September 25, 2008, and referred to in Section I,  
paragraph  C.1(c) of the Schedule and paragraph 5(b) of Annex B of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, which sets out the policies and procedures 
for land acquisition, resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced 
22
 
Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required 
during the implementation of a Sub-project, as said framework may be revised 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
 
32. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be entered 
into between Shanghai and each of the Project Companies pursuant to Section I, 
paragraph D.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to said agreements; and “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, 
individually, any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
