CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7629 BA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Solid Waste Management Project) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 25, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7629 BA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 25, 2009, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower has also requested the International 
Development Association (Association) to provide additional assistance towards the 
financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower 
and the Association (the Financing Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide 
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equal to nine million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,600,000)(the Credit or the Financing).  
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventeen million Euros  
(EUR 17,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
- 2 -
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause Part 1 of the Project to be carried out by the 
Federation and Part 2 of the Project to be carried out by RS, in accordance with 
- 3 -
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Federation Project 
Agreement and the RS Project Agreement. 
- 4 -
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Either Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its 
respective Project Agreement or Subsidiary Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that either Entity shall be able to perform its obligations 
under its respective Project Agreement or Subsidiary Agreement. 
(c) 
the Federation Subsidiary Agreement or the RS Subsidiary Agreement 
shall have been amended without prior approval of the Bank. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
a Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Bank, the 
Association and an Entity on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank;  
(b) 
for the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 5.01, a 
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
the Entity concerned, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;   
(c) 
a Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of either of 
the two Entities at least with one Participating Utility on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(d) 
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower;  
 
- 5 -
(e) 
The Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of 
this Agreement) have been fulfilled;  
 
(f) 
the Federation PMU has upgraded the Project accounting software in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(g) 
the RS PMU has installed a Project accounting software in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Project Agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Entity concerned 
and is legally binding on said Entity in accordance with its terms;  
 (b)  
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
the Entity concerned and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Entity in accordance with its terms; and 
(c) 
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Entity 
and the Participating Utility concerned and is legally binding upon the 
Entity and the Participating Utility in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Trg BiH 1 
 
71000 Sarajevo 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(387-33) 202-930 
- 6 -
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Dragan Vrankic 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the availability, quality, environmental 
soundness and financial viability of solid waste management services in Participating 
Utilities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1.
The Federation
A.  
Waste Management
Carrying out civil works and provision of equipment and consultants’ services, including 
the financing of Operating Costs for PITs, for: (i) the rehabilitation of existing disposal 
sites and upgrading of infrastructure to meet sanitary standards; (ii) the permanent closure 
of wild dump sites in an environmentally sound way and the establishment of a long-term 
environmental monitoring system; (iii) strengthening collection infrastructure and 
equipment, including collection bins, support vehicles and other related equipment; (iv) 
the conversion of existing small dump sites into an optimal number of transfer stations to 
handle residential, commercial and institutional waste for consolidation to regional 
landfill sites; (v) upgrading processes in advanced regional landfills including sorting, 
recycling and gas capturing; and (vi) the prior treatment of waste. 
B. 
Capacity Building
Provision of technical assistance and carrying out of training, outreach and capacity-
building activities to benefit Entity-level institutions involved in developing, planning, 
implementing and evaluating municipal waste management policies and programs and 
controlling sector policies and regulations, including: (i) support for the Federation’s 
long-term planning within the framework of the Borrower’s solid waste management 
system, including enforcement measures and gradual upgrading to international 
standards; (ii) developing financial management capacity for said system to operate on a 
commercial basis and to achieve cost optimization and cost recovery; (iii) the promotion 
of private sector participation where appropriate; (iv) training related to disposal, landfill 
operations, closure of existing landfills and design of future landfills; (v) the preparation 
of feasibility studies and financial, environmental and social assessments of landfill sites; 
(vi) the preparation of final designs and bidding documents and support for bidding 
procedures for investments and services under Part 1.A of the Project; (vii) the carrying 
out of public information programs and environmental monitoring to build consensus on, 
and promote local ownership of the solid waste management system and the concept of 
multi-municipal landfills, and to raise awareness on benefits of safe collection and 
disposal of household refuse and motivate households and industry to pay user fees; (viii) 
the assessment of alternatives for separating, collecting and disposing of hazardous 
- 8 -
waste; and (ix) developing a hazardous waste strategy, including options to promote 
inter-state cooperation in solid waste management and operation of joint sanitary landfills 
with surrounding municipalities in neighboring countries. 
C. 
Project Management and Operating Costs
Provision of technical assistance, training and goods and financing of Operating 
Costs to support the Federation PMU in the implementation of the Project. 
 
Part 2. Republika Srpska
A.  
Waste Management
Carrying out civil works and provision of equipment and consultants’ services, 
including the financing of Operating Costs for PITs, for: (i) the rehabilitation of existing 
disposal sites and upgrading of infrastructure to meet sanitary standards; (ii) the 
permanent closure of wild dump sites in an environmentally sound way and the 
establishment of a long-term environmental monitoring system; (iii) strengthening 
collection infrastructure and equipment, including collection bins, support vehicles and 
other related equipment; (iv) the conversion of existing small dump sites into an optimal 
number of transfer stations to handle residential, commercial and institutional waste for 
consolidation to regional landfill sites; (v) upgrading processes in advanced regional 
landfills including sorting, recycling and gas capturing; and (vi) the prior treatment of 
waste. 
B. 
Capacity Building
Provision of technical assistance and carrying out of training, outreach and 
capacity-building activities to benefit Entity-level institutions involved in developing, 
planning, implementing and evaluating municipal waste management policies and 
programs and controlling sector policies and regulations, including: (i) support for RS’ 
long-term planning within the framework of the Borrower’s solid waste management 
system, including enforcement measures and gradual upgrading to international 
standards; (ii) developing financial management capacity for said system to operate on a 
commercial basis and to achieve cost optimization and cost recovery; (iii) the promotion 
of private sector participation where appropriate; (iv) training related to disposal, landfill 
operations, closure of existing landfills and design of future landfills; (v) the preparation 
of feasibility studies and financial, environmental and social assessments of landfill sites; 
(vi) the preparation of final designs and bidding documents and support for bidding 
procedures for investments and services under Part 2.A of the Project; (vii) the carrying 
out of public information programs and environmental monitoring to build consensus on, 
and promote local ownership of the solid waste management system and the concept of 
multi-municipal landfills, and to raise awareness on benefits of safe collection and 
disposal of household refuse and motivate households and industry to pay user fees; (viii) 
the assessment of alternatives for separating, collecting and disposing of hazardous 
- 9 -
waste; and (ix) developing a hazardous waste strategy, including options to promote 
inter-state cooperation in solid waste management and operation of joint sanitary landfills 
with surrounding municipalities in neighboring countries. 
C. 
Project Management and Operating Costs
Provision of technical assistance, training and goods and financing of Operating 
Costs to support the RS PMU in the implementation of the Project.  
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Entities to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the following institutional and other arrangements: 
1. 
The Project shall be implemented under the overall responsibility of FMET in the 
Federation and MPPCE in RS. The PMUs, which shall report to, respectively, FMET and 
MPPCE shall be responsible for Project management, including procurement and 
financial management, in, respectively, the Federation and RS.  
2. 
PITs shall be established in each Participating Utility managing a landfill site 
under the Project. PITs shall handle procurement and financial aspects in relation to their 
respective landfill site under the Project, which shall be subsequently reviewed by the 
relevant PMU to ensure compliance with Bank guidelines and procedures. PITs shall 
report to the relevant PMU at least on a quarterly basis. 
B. 
Implementation Covenants and Safeguards 
1.  
The Borrower shall cause the Entities to each maintain their respective PMU at 
all times during Project implementation with terms of reference and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank, and with competent staff in adequate numbers. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Entities to:  
(a)  
duly perform all obligations under the Operational Manual and the EF in 
a timely manner and in accordance with their respective terms, and apply and implement, 
as the case may be, the actions, criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements therein set 
forth; and  
(b)  
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived the Operational 
Manual or the EF or any provisions of any one thereof, except with the prior written 
approval of the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause the Entities to ensure, that no private 
land shall be affected by the Project and that no land acquisition or resettlement shall be 
required. 
4. 
The Borrower, through the PMUs, shall, within eighteen (18) months of 
Effectiveness Date, prepare and submit to the Bank an implementation progress report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, said report to, inter alia, recommend, as 
necessary and on the basis of the Eligibility Criteria for Technical Assistance and the 
Eligibility Criteria for Investment Funding, any need for reallocating proceeds of 
Subsidiary Credits among Participating utilities. Decisions in relation to any such 
- 11 -
reallocation shall be made jointly by FMET and MPPCE and subject to the Bank’s 
approval.  
C. 
Subsidiary Agreements 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out and financing of Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Federation under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Borrower and the Federation (“Federation Subsidiary 
Agreement”), under the same terms and conditions as the Loan, approved by the Bank 
and including the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, for on-lending by Federation to its 
Participating Utilities on terms and conditions set forth in Part D of this Section I.   
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out and financing of Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to Republika Srpska under a 
subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and Republika Srpska (“RS Subsidiary 
Agreement”), under the same terms and conditions as the Loan, approved by the Bank 
and including the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, for on-lending by RS to its Participating 
Utilities on terms and conditions set forth in Part D of this Section I. 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreements or any provision thereof.
D. 
Sub-projects 
1. 
For purposes of Parts 1.A, 1.B, 2.A and 2.B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause the Entities to on-lend proceeds of the Loan to their respective Participating 
Utilities under a Subsidiary Credit Agreement to be entered into between the Federation 
and each Participating Federation Utility and between RS and each Participating RS 
Utility, in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and 
including the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and which shall include the following: 
(a) 
for purposes of Parts 1.A and 2.A of the Project, each sub-project 
proposal shall include a feasibility study and an Environmental Assessment for the 
proposed landfill site, prepared in accordance with the EF and in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
sub-project proposals shall be selected, appraised, implemented and 
evaluated in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual, the Procurement Guidelines, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the EF and on 
the basis of the relevant Environmental Assessment, the Eligibility Criteria for Technical 
Assistance and the Eligibility Criteria for Investment Funding; 
(c) 
implementation progress for each sub-project shall, within eighteen (18) 
months from the date of the relevant Subsidiary Credit Agreement, be measured by the 
- 12 -
relevant PMU and PIT on the basis of the action plan and performance targets provided 
in said Agreement and satisfactory to the Bank. In the event that said progress does not 
meet said plan and targets, the relevant PMU, in consultation with FMET or MPPCE, as 
the case may be, and the Bank, shall determine whether the unused amount of said credit 
should be transferred to another Participating Utility; and 
(d) 
for purposes of Parts 1.A (ii) and 2. A (ii) of the Project, funding requests 
for closure of wild dump sites in individual municipalities shall demonstrate that: (i) the 
given municipality is a member of the Inter-Municipal Board of a regional solid waste 
Utility; and (ii) the solid waste originally disposed at the wild dump site is managed at a 
regional sanitary landfill. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Entities, to obtain rights adequate to 
protect their interests and those of the Bank, including the right to:  
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of a Participating Utility to use the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Credit, or accelerate or obtain a refund of all or any part of 
the amount of said credit, upon the Participating Utility’s failure to perform any of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement;   
(b) 
seek a refund of all or part of the Subsidiary Credit in the event that 
progress in implementing a given sub-project under said credit does not meet the action 
plan and performance targets provided in the relevant Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and 
(c) 
require each Participating Utility to: (i) carry out its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards 
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the 
Borrower, and the EF; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the 
purpose; (iii) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the 
Procurement Guidelines; (iv) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress 
of the sub-project and the achievement of its objectives; (v) (A) maintain a financial 
management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the sub-project; and (B) at 
the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so 
audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (vi) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect 
the sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (vii) prepare 
and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the 
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
- 13 -
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Entities to exercise their rights under each 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the Entities not to assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any of its provisions. 
E. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the PMUs, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause the Entities, through their 
respective PMU, to maintain a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Entities, through their respective PMU, to prepare and furnish to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Entities, through their respective PMU, to have 
their Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) 
of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period 
of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III.
Procurement
- 14 -
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding subject to the modifications set forth in paragraph 3 
 
below. 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
- 15 -
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding shall be carried out by using either: 
(a) standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank; or (b) bidding documents, 
acceptable to the Bank, prepared by the PMUs on the basis of Open tendering procedure 
under the Borrower’s Public Procurement Law (Official Gazette November 2, 2004 
No.49/04), all subject to the following provisions: 
 
(1) 
Registration 
 
(a) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
 
(b) 
where registration is required, bidders: (i) shall be allowed a 
reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (ii) 
shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, 
which shall be verified through post-qualification; and 
 
(c) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a 
registration process is required, a foreign bidder declared the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
to register. 
 
(2) 
Advertising 
 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(3) 
Pre-qualification 
 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. Minimum 
experience and technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in 
the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(4) 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises 
 
Government-owned enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including 
those in the Federation and Republika Srpska, shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of 
the contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
- 16 -
(5) 
Bidding Documents 
 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents 
for the procurement of goods, works or services, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(6) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
 
(a) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents; and 
 
(c) 
contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having 
submitted the lowest-evaluated, substantially responsive bid 
and no negotiation shall take place. 
 
(7) 
Price Adjustment 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall 
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
(8) 
Rejection of Bids 
 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
(9) 
Securities 
 
(a) 
bid security and performance security should follow the 
generally accepted practice used in the local market;  
 
(b) 
alternative methods such as bid securing declaration may be 
acceptable, in which case the Borrower may require bidders to 
sign a declaration accepting that if they withdraw or modify 
their bids during the period of validity or they are awarded the 
contract and they fail to sign the contract or to submit a 
performance security before the deadline defined in the 
bidding documents, the bidder will be suspended for bidding in 
any contract with the implementing unit; and 
 
(c) 
no advance payment shall be made to contractors without a 
suitable advance payment security. These securities shall be 
included in the bidding documents in a text and format 
- 17 -
acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(10)   
Right to inspect and audit  
 
Each contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall 
permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and 
records relating to the procurement and performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by 
auditors appointed by the Bank. The deliberate and material 
violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such 
provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
(11)  
Fraud & Corruption 
 
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time 
determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged 
in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing 
for, or in executing, a contract financed by the World Bank Group. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
- 18 -
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: 
 
Procurement Method 
Prior Review Threshold 
1. 
ICB  (Goods and Works) 
All contracts 
2. 
NCB (Goods) 
First two contracts 
3. 
NCB (Works) 
All contracts  with estimated cost 
equivalent or more than US$500,000 
4. 
Direct Contracts 
All contracts 
Selection  Method 
Prior Review Threshold 
1. 
Competitive Methods  (firms)  
All contracts with estimated cost 
equivalent or more than US$100,000  
2. 
Single Source (firms and 
individuals) 
All contracts 
3
Consultant Qualifications 
The first two contracts 
4. 
Individual 
All contracts with estimated cost 
equivalent or more than US$50,000 
- 19 -
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
services and Operating Costs for 
 
Part 1.A of the Project 
3,820,000
90% 
(2) Goods, works and consultants’ 
 
services for Parts 1.B and 1.C of 
 
the Project  
440,000
100% 
(3) Operating Costs for Part 1.C of 
 
the Project 
70,000
100% 
(4) Unallocated for Part 1 of the 
 
Project 
4,998,750
(5) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
services and Operating Costs for 
 
Part 2.A of the Project 
3,710,000
90% 
(6) Goods, works and consultants’ 
 
services for Parts 2.B and 2.C of 
 
the Project 
360,000
100% 
(7) Operating Costs for Part 2.C of 
 
the Project 
 
60,000
100% 
- 20 -
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(8) Unallocated for Part 2 of the 
 
Project 
 
3,498,750
(9) Front-end Fee 
42,500
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General 
Conditions 
 
(10) Premia for Interest Rate Caps  
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
0
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 4.05(c) of 
the General 
Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
17,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
 
(a) 
For payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or  
 
(b) 
For expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) in the table in Part 
A.2, Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless: 
(i) 
the Federation Project Agreement has been executed on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(ii) 
the Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Federation has been executed on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
- 21 -
(iii) 
an opinion has been furnished to the Bank stating that the 
Federation Project Agreement and the Federation Subsidiary 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified, as the case 
may be, by the Federation and the Borrower, and are legally 
binding upon them in accordance with their respective terms; or 
(c) 
For expenditures under Categories (5), (6), (7) and (8) in the table in Part 
A.2, Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless: 
(i) 
the RS Project Agreement has been executed on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(ii) 
the Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and Republika 
Srpska has been executed on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank; and 
(iii) 
an opinion has been furnished to the Bank stating that RS Project 
Agreement and the RS Subsidiary Agreement have been duly 
authorized or ratified, as the case may be, by the RS and the 
Borrower, and are legally binding upon them in accordance with 
their respective terms; or 
(d) 
Under Categories (1), (2), (5) or (6), for expenditures incurred by a 
specific Participating Utility unless such Utility has concluded a Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2014. 
 
- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
December 15, 2016 
4.17% 
June 15, 2017 
4.17% 
December 15, 2017 
4.17% 
June 15, 2018 
4.17% 
December 15, 2018 
4.17% 
June 15, 2019 
4.17% 
December 15, 2019 
4.17% 
June 15, 2020 
4.17% 
December 15, 2020 
4.17% 
June 15, 2021 
4.17% 
December 15, 2021 
4.17% 
June 15, 2022 
4.17% 
December 15, 2022 
4.17% 
June 15, 2023 
4.17% 
December 15, 2023 
4.17% 
June 15, 2024 
4.17% 
December 15, 2024 
4.17% 
June 15, 2025 
4.17% 
December 15, 2025 
4.17% 
June 15, 2026 
4.17% 
December 15, 2026 
4.17% 
June 15, 2027 
4.17% 
December 15, 2027 
4.17% 
June 15, 2028 
4.09% 
- 23 -
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate.  
- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Eligibility Criteria for Technical Assistance and Investment Funding 
 
1. 
Eligibility Criteria for Technical Assistance under Parts 1.B and 2.B of the 
Project
Participating Utilities that meet the following four (4) criteria may be eligible to 
apply for technical assistance under the Project:  
(a) 
Demonstrated consistence with the relevant Entity solid waste 
management strategy. 
(b) 
A minimum of three (3) municipalities with declared interest in 
cooperating in solid waste management. 
(c) 
The Participating Utility has a minimum aggregated population of 
100,000. 
(d) 
The relevant Inter-Municipal Board has been established. 
2. 
Eligibility Criteria for Investment Funding under Parts 1.A and 2.A of the Project
Participating Utilities that meet at least four (4) of the following six (6) criteria 
may be eligible to apply for investment funding under the Project:  
(a) 
A regional solid waste management company has been established. 
(b) 
The site for regional sanitary landfill has been selected. 
(c) 
The local community has been duly consulted in the selection process of 
the site for regional sanitary landfill. 
(d) 
A suitable feasibility study has been prepared. 
(e) 
The detailed design and bidding documents for the proposed sub-project 
have been prepared. 
(f) 
A suitable Environmental Assessment and environmental risk mitigation 
plan have been prepared. 
 
- 25 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Eligibility Criteria for Technical Assistance” means the criteria set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be met by Participating Utilities in order to be 
eligible for technical assistance under Parts 1.B and 2.B of the Project.  
 
5. 
“Eligibility Criteria for Investment Funding” means the criteria set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be met by Participating Utilities in order to be 
eligible for investment funding under Parts 1.A and 2.A of the Project. 
 
6. 
“Entity” means either the Federation or RS, as the case may be, and Entities 
means the Federation and RS, collectively. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the environmental assessment to be 
prepared pursuant to Part D.1(a), Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
8. 
“Environmental Framework and Management Plan “ and “EF” means the 
environmental framework and management plan, satisfactory to the Bank, dated 
March 11, 2008, adopted by the Borrower and describing the environmental 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures under the Project. 
 
9. 
 “Federation” means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a constitutive 
part of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto.  
 
10. 
“Federation PMU” means the Federation Project Management Unit headed by a 
Manager and comprising a qualified Procurement Manager, a Procurement 
Analyst, a Financial Manager, an Accountant, a Project Engineer and such other 
qualified personnel, as necessary, established in FMET. 
 
11. 
 “Federation Project Agreement” means the Project Agreement among the Bank, 
the Association and the Federation of even date herewith, as the same may be 
- 26 -
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Federation Project Agreement. 
 
12. 
 “Federation Subsidiary Agreement” means the Subsidiary Agreement between 
the Borrower and the Federation, pursuant to which the Borrower makes a part of 
the proceeds of the Loan available to the Federation for the carrying out of the 
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior approval 
of the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Federation Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for the Project between 
the Borrower and the International Development Association, of even date 
herewith, as such financing agreement may be amended from time to time. 
“Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Financing Agreement. 
 
14. 
“FM Manual” means the Financial Management Manual prepared by the 
Borrower and the Entities for the Project, as an integral part of the Operational 
Manual and satisfactory to the Bank, setting out the financial management and 
internal control policies and procedures for financial management and financial 
reporting of the Project. 
 
15. 
“FMET” means the Ministry of Environment and Tourism of the Federation, and 
includes any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008).  
 
17. 
“Inter-Municipal Board” means a body comprised of representatives of the 
municipalities of the Federation and RS, as the case may be, participating in the 
Project and sharing the regional landfill site for adopting policies and financing 
mechanism for their Utilities. 
 
18. 
“KM” means the Convertible Mark, the currency of the Borrower. 
19. 
“MPPCE” means the Ministry of Physical Planning, Construction and Ecology of 
Republika Srpska, and includes any successor thereto. 
 
20. 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable and necessary incremental expenditures 
related to the operation of the PMUs and PITs, on account of Project 
implementation, management, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation, as 
approved by the Bank on the basis of budgets acceptable to the Bank, and 
including, inter alia, the costs of: (i) maintenance and operation of equipment 
and vehicles procured or used for the management of the Project; (ii) salaries 
- 27 -
paid to staff hired for the purposes of the Project, other than civil servants’ 
salaries; (iii) travel costs and per diems; (iv) consumable office supplies; (v) 
communication, printing and publications; and (vi) costs of translation and 
interpretation. 
 
21. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (d) of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the 
operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the 
implementation of the Project, and including, inter alia, the FM Manual, the EF 
and the eligibility criteria, selection procedures, terms and conditions and 
procurement arrangements for Subsidiary Credits. 
 
22. 
“Participating Utility” means a Participating Federation Utility or a Participating 
RS Utility. 
 
23. 
 “Participating Utilities” means, collectively, the Participating Federation 
Utilities and the Participating RS Utilities. 
 
24. 
 “Participating Federation Utilities” means the Utilities in the Federation which 
are to participate in the carrying out of the Project pursuant to the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement between the Federation and each such Utility. 
 
25. 
“Participating RS Utilities” means the Utilities in RS which are to participate in 
the carrying out of the Project pursuant to the Subsidiary Credit Agreement 
between RS and each such Utility. 
 
26. 
“PIT” means the Project Implementation Team comprised of a qualified 
Procurement Analyst and Accountant and such other qualified personnel, as 
necessary, established in each Utility managing a landfill site under the Project. 
 
27. 
“PMU” means either the Federation PMU or the RS PMU, as the case may be, 
and PMUs means said PMUs collectively. 
 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
29. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 22, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
30. 
“Project Agreement” means either the Federation Project Agreement or the RS 
Project Agreement, as the case may be, and Project Agreements means said 
Project Agreements collectively. 
- 28 -
31. 
 “Republika Srpska” or “RS” means Republika Srpska, a constitutive part of the 
Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 
32. 
“RS PMU” means the RS Project Management Unit headed by a Manager and 
comprising a qualified Procurement Manager, a Procurement Analyst, a 
Financial Manager, an Accountant, a Project Engineer and such other qualified 
personnel, as necessary, established within MPPCE. 
 
33. 
“RS Project Agreement” means the Project Agreement among the Bank, the 
Association and RS of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the RS Project Agreement. 
 
34. 
“RS Subsidiary Agreement” means the Subsidiary Agreement between the 
Borrower and RS, pursuant to which the Borrower makes a part of the proceeds 
of the Loan available to RS for the carrying out of the Project, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the RS Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
 
35. 
“Subsidiary Credit” means the credit provided by each Entity to a Participating 
Utility under a Subsidiary Credit Agreement. 
 
36. 
 “Subsidiary Credit Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Federation and each Participating Federation Utility, and between RS and 
each Participating RS Utility, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement. 
 
37. 
“Utility” means a local body in each Entity responsible for the disposal of 
municipal waste and management and operation of the regional landfill site, and 
Utilities 
means 
more 
than 
one 
Utility.
 
