CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7633-EG 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Ain Sokhna Power Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 15, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7633-EG 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 15, 2009, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred million United States 
dollars (US$600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (the “Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, for each Interest Period shall be at 
a rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions.  
- 2 -
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the 
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect of the Loan. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
and Article V of the General Conditions. 
- 3 -
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Borrower represents that it has complied with its constitutional procedures 
and that all these shall have been completed by the Effective Date. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Project Implementing 
Entity. 
 
4.03. 
The Additional Legal Matter is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
4.04. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement, or such later date established by the Bank in 
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the Assistant to 
the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8 Adly Street, 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt  
 
(202) 2391-5167 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
- 4 -
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi  
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 5 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to (i) ensure continuous electricity supply to 
meet demand in a sustainable manner through investment in new generation capacity; and 
(ii) improve the sector’s financial sustainability through the provision of  assistance to the 
Project Implementing Entity to support sector revenue improvements. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:
The Ain Sokhna Power Plant
The carrying out of civil works, and the provision of goods and consultants’ 
services, for the construction of the Ain Sokhna power plant, including: (1) two 650 MW 
steam turbine generators; (2) two steam generators (boilers); (3) electrical equipment 
including transformers and switchyard; (4) auxiliary mechanical equipment including 
pumps and drives, heat exchangers and de-aerators, critical piping and piping valves; (5) 
water and wastewater treatment systems and desalination plant; (6) the implementation of 
the Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP), including environmental 
monitoring equipment; (7) distributed control systems and instrumentation; (8) 
engineering and project management services including design, procurement and 
construction supervision as well as commissioning, testing and start-up; (9) civil works, 
yard tanks as well as medium and low voltage switchgear; (10) substations and 
transmission lines to interconnect to the national power grid; and (11) insurance. 
Part B:
Support for the Energy Sector
Technical Assistance, through grant funding facilitated by the Bank, consisting of 
implementation advice to the Project Implementing Entity on its overall and ongoing 
efforts to improve sector revenues. 
 
- 6 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary loan 
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the 
following: (i) repayment of principal, and payment of interest, charges and 
premium in accordance with Article II of this Agreement and Article III of the 
General Conditions; (ii) payment of any other charges which may be required by 
the Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Project 
Implementing Entity (“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”). 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants, dated October 15, 2006. 
B. 
Safeguards 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that 
remedial measures are taken during the implementation and operation of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in the ESMP and the RPF. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity, to monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five days (45) after the end of the period covered by such report. 
- 7 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through the Project Implementing Entity, maintain or cause 
to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have the Financial 
Statements related to the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing 
Entity (or such other period proposed by the Project Implementing Entity and 
agreed to by the Bank).  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may, through the Project Implementing Entity, withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
General Conditions, this Section, and such additional arrangements as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
arrangements), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
- 8 -
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Works 
600,000,000 
100% 
 
(2) Premia for Interest 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
600,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
- 9 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning July 15, 2015 
 
through July 15, 2029 
 
3.33% 
 
On January 15, 2030 
3.43% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
- 10 -
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 11 -
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the Borrower’s 
environmental and social management plan for the Project prepared in 
accordance with the ESIA and provided to the Bank on August 10, 2008, as such 
framework may be updated from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional 
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to 
offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
“ESIA” means the Borrower’s environmental and social impact assessment for 
the Project provided to the Bank on August 10, 2008, setting forth the matters to 
be addressed in the ESMP regarding mitigating, monitoring and institutional 
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to 
offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
5. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company 
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 164 of 2000.
8. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
framework for the Project provided to the Bank on August 10, 2008, setting forth 
the rules, procedures and guidelines for the acquisition of land and/or other 
assets from persons affected by the Project (if any), and/or the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of such persons (if any), and the compensation thereof. 
 
9. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity pursuant to the provisions of 
- 12 -
Part A of Section 1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
- 13 -
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
