CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7622-MX 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Results-Based Management and Budgeting Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated April 21, 2009  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7622-MX 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated April 21, 2009, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (“Borrower”), 
as represented by its SHCP, and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). 
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth 
in the table in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the 
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of seventeen million two hundred forty three thousand 
Dollars ($17,243,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director 
Internacional de NAFIN or any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in 
writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
 
-2- 
 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, at any time, request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out: 
 
(a) 
Part 1 of the Project through SFP; 
 
(b) 
Parts 2, 3 and 4(i)B, 4(ii) and 4(iii) of the Project through SHCP’s Subsecretaría 
de Egresos; 
 
(c) 
Part 4(i)(A) of the Project through SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos 
jointly; and  
 
(d) 
Part 5 of the Project through SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos (in close 
technical coordination with SFP). 
 
 
-3- 
 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any of the 
parties to the Contrato de Mandato shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Contrato de Mandato. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank), 
indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and NAFIN in accordance with the Contrato de 
Mandato’s terms. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on June 11, 
2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s Representative is 
the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público de Hacienda of SHCP. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
 
-4- 
 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
 
By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity (through its 
federal departments and agencies) to provide decision makers and the public with 
rigorous, timely, user-friendly information on the efficiency and effectiveness of 
government organizations and their program expenditures. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve its objective: 
 
Part 1: Management Improvement Program 
 
 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training for the design an implementation of 
selected management improvement and austerity systems, including, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
assistance to the design of the institutional module of the Borrower’s Programa 
Especial de la Mejora de la Gestión en la Administración Pública Federal 2008-
2012;  
 
(b) 
assistance for technical groups established and to be established with respect to 
each of said management improvement and austerity systems; and 
 
(c) 
capacity building for actors responsible for the implementation of said 
management improvement and austerity systems. 
 
Part 2: Results-Based Management and Budgeting Integrated Information Systems 
 
 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to support the development of an 
integrated information system, including, inter alia, the development of the necessary 
institutional arrangements, procedures, and an associated electronic database to: (a) 
receive budget and other expenditure information from different sources; (b) organize 
and analyze said information; and (c) produce abridged, user-friendly reports with key 
messages to inform various stakeholders and improve transparency of budget execution. 
 
Part 3: Financial Management Strengthening for Results-Based Budgeting 
 
 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the quality and 
integrity of financial data, including, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
modernization of the Borrower’s public accounts (Cuenta Pública) and the 
underlying government accounting systems to strengthen the usefulness, integrity 
and transparency of public accounting records and related accounting 
management 
systems 
for 
management 
decision 
making 
and 
public 
accountability; and 
 
 
-6- 
 
(b) 
strengthening of the quality and timeliness of the Borrower’s budget execution 
reporting. 
 
 
Part 4: Results-Based Management and Evaluation System Consolidation 
 
 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to: (a) address government’s 
capacity limitations to carry out, contract and use evaluations of government programs; 
and (b) consolidate a system to evaluate the effectiveness of federal policies and 
programs through, inter alia: 
 
(i) 
(A) 
creation and consolidation of a Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño in 
the Borrower’s government; and 
 
(B) 
strengthening of the alignment of the Borrower’s National System for 
Democratic Planning components, including, Vision 2030, National 
Development Plan, sector strategies and budgetary programs and the 
strengthening of a selected set of strategic indicators based on sharper 
program design, and ownership building of these indicators among the 
Borrower’s line secretariats; 
 
(ii) 
strengthening the generation of performance data for the analysis of the 
Programas Federales; and 
 
(iii) 
implementation of results-based management approaches at the state level. 
 
Part 5: Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to SFP and SHCP to develop the 
necessary organizational and evaluation capacity to monitor the progress and to evaluate 
the implementation of the Borrower’s Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño and related 
institutional reforms. 
 
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements. 
 
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SFP and SHCP’s 
Subsecretaría de Egresos, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive any provision of these documents without the Bank’s prior written approval. In 
case of any conflict between the terms of said documents and those of this Agreement, 
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos, shall maintain an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia, specific provisions on 
detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including:  
 
(i) 
the procurement, financial management and disbursement requirements 
thereof; and 
 
(ii) 
the Key Performance Indicators.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, in SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos, at all times during 
Project implementation,  implementation teams, one within SFP’s and another 
within SHCP’s regular structure, with a structure, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the Project, including, inter alia, the 
responsibility of said teams to coordinate and monitor the carrying out of the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that the PITs are, at all times during Project implementation, led by a 
Project coordinator who is assisted by adequate professional and administrative 
staff (including procurement and financial specialists), in numbers and with 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
B. 
Contrato de Mandato 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato), 
satisfactory to the Bank, among SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos, SFP and NAFIN, 
whereby: 
 
(a) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
 
-8- 
 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees 
to maintain and operate the designated account (referred to in the 
additional instructions cited in Section IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement) in compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de 
Egresos, the Borrower shall cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that 
NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Contrato de 
Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato.  In case of any 
conflict between the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports 
 
The Borrower through SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos (as the case may be) 
(pursuant to the Contrato de Mandato) shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of Key Performance Indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos (as the case may be), 
shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, through SFP 
and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos (as the case may be), shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos (as the case may be), 
shall have the Project Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of 
 
-9- 
 
Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall 
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in 
which the Project becomes effective.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods.  All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
4. 
Special Provisions.  The Recipient through SFP and SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos 
shall: (a) supply the SEPA with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan 
within 30 days after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the 
Procurement Plan at least every six months, or as required by the Bank, to reflect the 
actual Project implementation needs and progress and supply the SEPA with the 
information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding procedures. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  The following table specifies the methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for 
goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding  
(b) Shopping 
 
 
-10- 
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Single Source Selection 
(b) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may (or may cause NAFIN to, pursuant to the Contrato de Mandato)  
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower and /or to NAFIN (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures and the Front-end Fee as set forth in the table in paragraph 
2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
-11- 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods 
 
 
400,000 
 
100% 
(2) Consultants services 
 
 
14,869,892 
100% 
(3) Training 
 
 
1,930,000 
100% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
43,108 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 
2.03 
of 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest rate Collars 
(amounts due under section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement) 
 
 
-0- 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
17,243,000 
 
 
 
3. 
For purposes of this Section IV.A the term “Training” means non-consultant expenditures 
incurred in connection with the provision of training under the Project, including training fees, 
logistics, materials, and per diem of trainers and trainees. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
 
-12- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15, 2026. 
 
-13- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud 
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated 
October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
through SFP, SHCP’s Subsecretaría de Egresos and NAFIN (as hereinafter defined), 
pursuant to Section B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 
2008). 
 
6. 
“Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and evaluating 
progress towards the attainment of Project objectives. 
 
7. 
“NAFIN” means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. a Mexican development bank serving as the 
Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
“National Development Plan” means Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2007-2012, the 
Borrower’s plan for national development for the years 2007-2012, published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación) on May 31, 2007. 
 
9. 
“National System for Democratic Planning” means the Borrower’s Sistema Nacional de 
Planeación Democrática, which system promotes equity, dynamism, and sustainability in 
the Federal development planning process. 
 
10. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.A.2. of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, dated November 10, 2008, as said manual may be amended from time to 
time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
11. 
“PIT” means a Project implementation team referred to in paragraph 3(a) of Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
 
-14- 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 10, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Programas Federales” means “los programas relativos a funciones de gobierno y de 
desarrollo social o económico previstos en el Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación 
de cada ejercicio fiscal” as set forth in Section X of Article 3 of the Lineamientos 
Generales para la Evaluación de los Programas Federales de la Administración Pública 
Federal, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación) 
on March 30, 2007. 
 
15. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System. 
 
16. 
“SFP” means Secretaría de la Función Pública, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Public 
Administration. 
 
17. 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Finance and Public Credit. 
 
18. 
“Sistema de Evaluación del Desempeño” means the Borrower’s national performance 
evaluations system. 
 
19. 
“Vision 2030” means Visión México 2030, the type of country that the Borrower 
envisions for the year 2030, as reflected in the National Development Plan. 
