CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7735-MK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Conditional Cash Transfers Project) 
 
between 
 
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
(the Borrower) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 2, 2009 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement 
dated 
September 
2, 
2009, 
between 
the 
Borrower 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nineteen million three hundred 
thousand Euros (�19,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the 
Law on Social Protection has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 
(a) 
The Manual for the CCT Education Program Operations (MEPO) and the 
Project Operational Manual (POM), both in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, have been adopted by the Borrower. 
 
3
(b) 
The CCTIU is staffed with qualified experts and with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, headed by a manager and comprising, inter alia, 
an expert for financial procedures, two experts for beneficiary 
registration and administration and one monitoring and evaluation 
expert. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower has enacted the Law on Social Protection, satisfactory to 
the Bank.  
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.  
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Dame Gruev 14 
1000 Skopje 
 
Facsimile: 
 
389 2 3117 280 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Skopje, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
BORROWER  
 
By /s/ Zoran Stavreski 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Markus Repnik 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of 
the Borrower’s social safety net through: (a) the introduction of conditional cash transfers 
(CCT); and (b) improvements in the administration, oversight, monitoring and evaluation 
of social assistance transfers. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Enhancing the Human Capital Links to Cash Assistance
1. 
Implementation of a CCT program through the provision of education grants to 
poor families with children attending secondary schools and selected in accordance with 
the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the CCT Education Program Operations 
Manual.  
 
2. 
Identification, development and implementation of possible CCT program 
extensions in health, labor and/or other levels of education, including: (a) the provision of 
goods and technical assistance to: (i) undertake diagnostic studies on target population 
and possible relevant health, labor and/or education incentives; (ii) carry out an 
assessment of targeting and outreach mechanisms; (iii) develop different options for key 
CCT program parameters; and (iv) design the relevant CCT program and prepare the 
relevant operational manual; and (b) the provision of CCT program grants to pilot and 
test possible CCT extension programs.  
 
Part B: Strengthening Safety Net Administration
Provision of Training, goods and technical assistance for: 
 
1. 
Improvement of the Cash Benefits Information System. 
 
2. 
Assessments of targeting, eligibility and registry systems for cash benefit 
programs. 
 
3. 
Development and application of oversight and control mechanisms to monitor the 
implementation of CCT programs and other social financial assistance benefits. 
 
4. 
Carrying out a functional analysis of Social Work Centers. 
 
5. 
Capacity building for CCT program management in MLSP and SWCs. 
 
6
Part C: Project Management, Monitoring and Impact Evaluation
1. 
Strengthening the PMU’s capacity for Project management through the provision 
of goods, consultant services, including Project audit, Training and financing of 
Operating Costs. 
 
2. 
Provision of consultants’ services and Training for Project monitoring and impact 
evaluation, including: (a) the development of tools to monitor the results framework for 
the Project and the CCT program; (b) the carrying out of an evaluation to assess the 
implementation of the CCT program in a decentralized context; and (c) the carrying out 
of a Project impact evaluation and surveys. 
 
3. 
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and Training for Project and CCT 
program information dissemination and public awareness campaign. 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
MLSP, under the oversight of the Borrower’s Deputy Prime Minister for 
Economic Issues, shall be responsible for the implementation of the Project. The 
inter-ministerial CCT Council shall be responsible for strategic decisions on the 
Project. The CCT Working Group shall be responsible for providing technical 
guidance and support to ensure the efficient implementation of the Project. The 
PMU, headed by a Project Director, shall be responsible for day-to-day 
management (including procurement, disbursement, financial management and 
reporting arrangements), payments of grants, coordination, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project. CCTIU, under MLSP, shall ensure the coordination and 
implementation of the CCT education program, including eligibility screening 
and selection of CCT beneficiaries, oversight and control mechanisms and the 
grievance and case management system. At the local level, SWCs shall be 
responsible for the implementation of the CCT education program. The Borrower 
shall, at all times during the implementation of the Project, maintain the CCT 
Council, the CCT Working Group, the CCTIU, the PMU and the SWCs, all with 
a composition, staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual, the MEPO and the Manual for CCT Program Grants, and 
shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of said 
Manuals without the prior written approval of the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) education grants under Part A.1 of the Project 
are provided to grant beneficiaries in accordance with the criteria, requirements 
and procedures set forth in MEPO; (ii) CCT program grants under Part A.2 (b) of 
the Project are provided to grant beneficiaries in accordance with the criteria, 
requirements and procedures set forth in the Manual for CCT Program Grants to 
be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph B.1(c), Section IV of this 
Schedule; and (iii) grant beneficiaries comply with criteria, requirements and 
obligations set forth in MEPO or the Manual for CCT Program Grants, as the 
case may be. 
4. 
The Borrower shall, within two (2) months of effectiveness of this Agreement, 
appoint one expert in each of its territorial Social Work Centers to work full time 
on the CCT program implementation. 
 
8
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Other Covenants 
The Borrower shall, not later than November 30 in each year throughout the 
duration of the Project, prepare and submit to the Bank, for its review and 
approval, annual work programs and budgets prepared by the PMU with inputs 
from CCTIU.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report. In addition, the Borrower shall, not later than February 15 of each 
year throughout the duration of the Project, submit to the Bank an annual 
progress report describing the progress in Project implementation. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Component A of this Section, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. In addition, the 
9
Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months after the end of each fiscal year 
throughout the duration of the Project, submit to the Bank an annual Project 
operational and performance audit on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods.  All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the requirements set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule 2 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
10 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants, including Sole-Source Selection 
(d) Single-Source Selection 
(e) Fixed Budget Selection 
D. 
Operating Costs
Incremental expenditures included in the Operating Costs category can be 
procured in accordance with the established Borrower’s administrative procedures 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
11 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Grants under Part A of 
the Project: 
 
(a) Education grants 
under Part A.1 of 
the Project 
 
(b) CCT program 
grants under Part 
A.2 (b) of the 
Project 
 
15,310,000 
 
525,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, services and 
Training for the Project  
 
3,375,000 
82% 
(3) Operating Costs 
 
41,750 
82% 
(4) Front-end Fee 
 
48,250 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
19,300,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or   
 
(b) 
for grants under Category (1) unless the software system for cash 
benefits is developed, tested and operating in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; or 
12 
 
(c) 
for grants under Category (1)(b) unless the Borrower has adopted the 
Manual for CCT Program Grants, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2014. 
13 
 
ANNEX TO  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding 
 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines, the following criteria shall be followed in 
procurement under National Competitive Bidding procedures: 
 
(a) 
Generalities 
Bidding shall be conducted using “Open Procedures.” Furthermore, restricted 
procedure shall not be used without the express consent of the Bank and is subject to the 
following conditions: 
 
•
the contracting authority shall invite all the candidates that meet the selection 
criteria; and 
 
•
no maximum number of selected candidates shall apply. 
 
(b) 
Registration 
•
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.  
 
•
Where registration is required, bidders (1) shall be allowed a reasonable time 
to complete the registration process, and (2) shall not be denied registration 
for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully perform 
the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
 
•
Foreign bidders not from the territory of the Borrower shall not be precluded 
from bidding. If a registration process is required, a foreign bidder declared 
the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity to 
register. 
 
(c) 
Advertising, time for submission of bids 
•
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper. Invitations could be also advertised on the web sites of the 
Public Procurement Bureau and respective ministry.  
 
•
Time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less 
than thirty (30) days from the time of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later.   
 
14 
 
(d) 
Pre-qualification 
•
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) 
widely circulated national daily newspaper. Invitations could be also 
published on the web sites of the Public Procurement Bureau and respective 
ministry.  
 
•
Time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids shall not be less 
than thirty (30) days from the time of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later.   
 
•
Minimum experience, and technical and financial requirements, shall be 
explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(e) 
Participation of Publicly-owned enterprises 
 
Publicly-owned enterprises shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they 
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting authority. Furthermore, they will 
be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders.  
 
(f) 
Bidding Documents 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Bank for procurement of goods and works. 
 
(g) 
Bid Opening, Bid Evaluation and Contract Award 
•
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened 
simultaneously at the public bid opening. 
 
•
No bids shall be rejected at the bid opening except for late bids and bids shall 
not be evaluated as part of bid opening process. 
 
•
The economic, financial and technical capacity of the bidders cannot be 
guaranteed by another entity, except joint venture and observing those 
criteria set up in the bidding documents. 
 
•
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the quantifiable 
criteria declared in the bidding documents and evaluation criteria other than 
price shall be quantified in monetary terms. 
 
15 
 
•
Bids not substantially responsive shall be rejected. 
 
•
Extensions of bid validity will be allowed once only for not more than 30 
days.  
 
•
No further extensions shall be requested without the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
 
•
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the 
lowest-evaluated and substantially responsive bid. No negotiation shall take 
place.  
 
(h) 
Rejection of all bids 
All bids shall not be rejected and a new procurement process starts without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence.  
 
(i) 
Price Adjustment 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain an 
appropriate price adjustment clause.  
 
(j) 
Securities 
•
Bid security and performance security should follow the generally accepted 
practice used in the local market.  
 
•
Alternative methods such as bid securing declaration may be acceptable, in 
which case the Borrower may require bidders to sign a declaration accepting that 
if they withdraw or modify their bids during the period of validity or they are 
awarded the contract and they fail to sign the contract or to submit a performance 
security before the deadline defined in the bidding documents, the bidder will be 
suspended for bidding in any contract with the implementing uni 
 
•
No advance payment shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance 
payment security. These securities shall be included in the bidding documents in 
a text and format acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(k) 
Right to inspect and audit 
Each contract financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that the 
suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect 
their accounts and records relating to the procurement and performance of the contract 
and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. The 
16 
 
deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such 
provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
(l) 
Fraud & Corruption 
 
The Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Bank, if it at any time determines 
that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in executing, 
a contract financed by the World Bank Group. 
 
17 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2016  
 
through September 15, 2033 
 
and on March 15, 2034 
 
2.78% 
 
2.7% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
18 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
19 
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“CCT” means conditional cash transfer. 
3. 
“CCT Council” means the CCT council established by a decision of the 
Borrower dated October 2, 2007, headed by the Borrower’s deputy Prime 
Minister for Economic Issues and comprising the Borrower’s Ministers of, 
respectively, finance, labor and social policy, health, education and science and 
local government. 
4. 
“CCT Working Group” means the CCT working group established by a decision 
of MLSP dated June 22, 2007, comprising technical experts from various 
ministries and agencies of the Borrower. 
5. 
 “CCTIU” means the Conditional Cash Transfers Implementation Unit 
established by the Borrower pursuant to a decision of MLSP dated June 12, 2009, 
under the State Secretary of MLSP. 
6. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
7. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
9. 
“Law on Social Protection” means the Borrower’s law on social protection, 
governing key social financial benefits and providing the basis for the 
introduction of CCTs, to be enacted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 (c) 
of this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Manual for the CCT Education Program Operations” or “MEPO” means the 
manual for the CCT education grants under Part A.1 of the Project, to be adopted 
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, defining the 
characteristics of the Borrower’s CCT education program, outlining the 
respective roles and responsibilities of said program providers and beneficiaries 
20 
 
and setting forth the eligibility criteria, requirements and procedures for the 
selection of beneficiaries and provision of said grants. 
 
11. 
“Manual for CCT Program Grants” means the manual for CCT program grants 
under Part A.2 (b) of the Project, to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to 
Paragraph B.1(c), Section IV, Schedule 2 to this Agreement, defining the 
characteristics of the Borrower’s CCT program, outlining the respective roles and 
responsibilities of said program providers and beneficiaries and setting forth the 
eligibility criteria, requirements and procedures for the selection of beneficiaries 
and provision of said grants. 
 
12. 
“MLSP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the PMU on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
dissemination of Project related information and publications, office rent and 
utilities, insurance, maintenance and repair of office and equipment, insurance, 
maintenance and repair of vehicles, local travel, communication, translation and 
interpretation, mail, bank charges, office supplies and other miscellaneous costs 
directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets acceptable to 
the Bank but not including salaries of civil servants. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 7, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” means the project management unit 
established by the Borrower within MLSP, pursuant to a decision of MLSP dated 
September 1, 2004, headed by a Project Director, responsible for day-to-day 
management (including procurement, disbursement, financial management and 
reporting arrangements), payment of grants, coordination, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project and comprising a Project Manager, a procurement 
expert, a financial management expert, an internal auditor and two coordinators 
for the activities under the Project. 
 
17. 
“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the operational manual to be 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement and 
setting forth the operational requirements, criteria, institutional arrangements and 
21 
 
operational procedures for the implementation of the Project, including, inter 
alia, procurement, financial management, disbursement, accounting, audit, 
environmental and social safeguards requirements, monitoring and evaluation 
arrangements, Sub-projects selection criteria, Sub-loans and Grants terms and 
conditions and processing procedures. 
 
18. 
“Social Work Center” and “SWC” means a social work center participating in the 
implementation of the CCT education program at the local level. 
 
19. 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment 
rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers, 
trainers’ 
fees, 
and 
other 
training 
related 
miscellaneous 
costs. 
 
