CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7640 HR 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF092704 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project 2) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 6, 2009  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7640 HR 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF092704 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 6, 2009, between the REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
(“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
May 29, 2003, describing a program designed to improve the provision of efficient and 
sustainable sanitation services in the Borrower’s coastal cities and improve coastal water 
quality along the Adriatic coast and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of such program, and a letter dated February 27, 2008, confirming the 
Borrower’s request for support in the preparation of the second phase of such program 
(both letters hereinafter collectively referred to as the Program); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the execution of the 
Program through a series of three (3) loans up to one hundred forty million Euro 
(EUR 140,000,000) over a period of approximately ten (10) years to be utilized by the 
Borrower in implementing the Program; 
 
(C) 
the first phase of the Program has been supported by the Bank through a 
loan in an amount equal to forty million Euro (EUR 40,000,000) under the Loan 
Agreement (Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project, Loan No. 7226-HR) between the 
Borrower and the Bank dated July 2, 2004; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
second phase of the Program (the Project) described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(E) 
the Borrower intends to obtain a grant from the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in an amount equal to six million four hundred thousand dollars 
($6,400,000) to assist in financing part of the cost of Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project, on 
the terms and conditions set forth in a GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Co-financing 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
2
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions and in 
the Preamble and Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty million Euro 
(EUR 60,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
3
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out Part 3.2 of the Project 
through the MEPPPC; and (ii) cause Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project to be carried 
out by the Project Implementing Entity, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in paragraph (b) Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(b) 
At least one (1) Sub-Loan and/or Sub-Grant Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Project Implementing Entity, a Municipality 
and a MWSC. 
 
4
(c) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or 
approved by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity 
in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Sub-Loan and/or Sub-Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or 
approved by the Project Implementing Entity, the Municipality and the 
MWSC and is legally binding upon the Project Implementing Entity, the 
Municipality and the MWSC in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Katanciceva 5 
 
10000 Zagreb 
 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(385-1) 4922-598 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
5
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Zadar, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By: /s/ Ivan Suker 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Andras Horvai 
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the provision of efficient and 
sustainable wastewater services in participating coastal municipalities; and (ii) to reduce 
the nutrient load entering the Borrower’s coastal waters from, and pilot innovative 
wastewater treatment solutions in, selected municipalities.  
 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
 
Part 1: Wastewater Investments
1.1 
Financing and carrying out of Sub-projects for construction, rehabilitation and 
expansion of:  
 
(a) 
sewerage networks, main collectors, pumping stations, wastewater 
treatment facilities, and submarine outfalls in selected Municipalities; and 
 
(b) 
enhanced nutrient reduction wastewater treatment facilities in selected 
Municipalities. 
 
1.2 
Carrying out of feasibility studies, environmental impact assessments and 
preparation of other documentation necessary to secure location and construction permits, 
detailed design and final bidding documents for the works to be financed under Part 1.1 
of the Project. 
 
Part 2: Institutional Strengthening 
2.1 
Institutional strengthening of HV and MRDFWM in sector development and EU 
accession support, including the provision of consultants’ services and equipment 
required for: (i) the implementation of the Water Management Strategy; (ii) the 
establishment of a monitoring and benchmarking system in HV to monitor the 
operational, financial and environmental performance of each MWSC; (iii) the carrying 
out of studies to design and implement sludge and sewage treatment and disposal 
solutions for MWSCs; and (iv) the carrying out of an in-depth study on investment needs 
and financing plan to meet EU requirements, including preparation of feasibility studies 
and bidding documents for projects eligible for EU financing. 
2.2 
Institutional strengthening of MWSCs aimed at the improvement of their 
financial and operating efficiency, including works, equipment, software, consultants’ 
services and training required for the improvement of billing and collection, the reduction 
of non-revenue water, establishment of cost centers in multi-service utilities, 
improvement of operational efficiency, cadastral survey of network conditions, 
7
establishment of cadastre of pipes, remote sensing, staff training and other cost efficiency 
measures.  
2.3 
Provision of consultants’ services and equipment to support the PIU in Project 
implementation, including completing the preparation and appraisal of Sub-projects, 
auditing, training, public information and communication. 
Part 3: Seawater Quality Monitoring 
Improvement of the coverage of the networks which monitor the quality of 
wastewater and seawater with a view to provide sufficient and adequate information of 
the Borrower’s coastal waters and discharges from wastewaters and thereby improve the 
coordination, comparability and the analytical quality of the results, including: 
3.1 
Improvement and expansion of the capacity of HV’s monitoring systems to 
assess the impact of the Program on the quality of coastal waters, through the provision 
of consultants’ services and equipment, state-of-the-art technologies, including the 
monitoring of the enhanced nutrient reduction waste water treatment plans, research to 
measure ecological impacts, and dissemination activities. 
3.2 
Strengthening of MEPPPC environmental monitoring capabilities to assess the 
quality of the Borrower’s Adriatic Sea waters and the impact of the Project on seawater 
quality, through the provision of consultants’ services and equipment, encompassing the 
extension of monitoring activities to all the MWSCs participating in the Project and 
increased focus on EU compliance.   
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall assign to the MRDFWM responsibility for overseeing the 
implementation by the Project Implementing Entity of Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project 
and for supervising the performance of the Project Implementing Entity. 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MEPPPC, shall carry out Part 3.2 of the Project and 
coordinate with the PIU on matters regarding Project monitoring and evaluation and 
financial management, financial reports and audits in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II.A and II.B below. 
B. 
Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement 
 
1. 
For the purpose of carrying out of Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(a), (2) 
and (3)(a) available to the Project Implementing Entity under a Subsidiary Loan and 
Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Project Implementing 
Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
the following conditions for the Subsidiary Loan: (i) it shall be denominated in Euro; and 
(ii) it shall be the equivalent in Euro (determined as of the date or respective dates of 
repayment of the principal amount of the Loan specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) 
of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out 
of the Designated Account for Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project on account of the cost of 
goods, works and services and to be financed under the Subsidiary Loan out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(a), (2) and (3)(a); (iii) 
it shall be charged interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time at the rate applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) it shall be repaid to the Borrower in accordance 
with an amortization schedule, as set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, not 
exceeding the maturity of the Loan, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding five (5) 
years. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan and Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan and Grant 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
9
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. 
Safeguards Compliance 
 
The Borrower, through the MRDFWM, shall take all measures within its control 
to ensure that the Project Implementing Entity carry out and screen Sub-projects to 
ensure their consistency with the principles and requirements set forth in the Resettlement 
Policy Framework and the Environmental Safeguard Framework and the satisfaction of 
any and all applicable requirements for the preparation, disclosure and implementation of 
a site-specific EIA, EMP and/or LARAP, as the case may be, before the submission of 
any withdrawal request in respect of any Sub-project necessitating the respective EIA, 
EMP and/or LARAP. 
 
E. 
Operational Manual 
 
The Borrower, through the MRDFWM, shall take all action required on its part 
to ensure the Project is carried out in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual.  
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MEPPPC, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of 
Part 3.2 of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators for Part 3.2 of the Project.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Project Implementing Entity not 
later two (2) weeks after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation 
and forwarding by the Project Implementing Entity to the Bank of the overall Project 
Report.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MEPPPC, shall provide to the Project Implementing 
Entity not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the 
report referred to in Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, all such information on 
the execution of Part 3.2 of the Project as the Bank shall reasonably request for the 
purposes of that Section. 
 
B. 
Mid-Term Review 
The Borrower, through the MEPPPC, shall: 
 
10
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators for Part 3.2 of the Project, the carrying out of Part 3.2 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 30, 2011, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of Part 3.2 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, on or about June 30, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in the preceding paragraph (b), and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part 3.2 of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Reports 
and not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Services (other than Consultants’ Services) and Works.  All goods, 
services (other than consultants’ services) and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
11
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services) and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, services (other than consultants’ services) and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Services (other than Consultants’ 
Services) and Works. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other 
than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, services (other 
than consultants’ services) and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) 
Limited International Bidding 
(b) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures stipulated in 
 
the Annex to this Schedule 
(c) 
Shopping 
(d) 
Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
12
 
Procurement Methods 
 
(a) 
Quality-Based Selection 
(b) 
Selection under a Fixed-Budget 
(c) 
Least-Cost Selection 
(d) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
(f) 
Individual Consultants 
(g) 
Sole-source basis for individual consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Euro) 
Percentage 
of Expenditures  
to be Financed 
 
(1)  Goods: 
 
(a) under Parts 1, 2 and 
 
3.1 of the Project 
 
(b) under Part 3.2  
 
of the Project 
 
250,000 
 
250,000 
50% 
13
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Euro) 
Percentage 
of Expenditures  
to be Financed 
 
(2)  Works: 
 
(a) under Part 1.1 (a)  
 
of the Project 
 
(b) under Part 1.1 (b)  
 
of the Project 
 
44,150,000 
 
6,000,000 
 
50% 
 
40% 
(3)   Consultants’ Services: 
 
(a) under Parts 1, 2 and 
 
3.1 of the Project 
 
(b) under Part 3.2  
 
of the Project 
 
5,750,000 
 
2,100,000 
50% 
(4)    Unallocated 
 
  1,500,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
60,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account, until the Bank has received payment in full of 
the Front-end Fee; 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
 
(c) 
on account of works under Category (2), until and unless the Project 
Implementing Entity has submitted to the Bank a written attestation for the Sub-project 
that entails the works in respect of which the withdrawal is requested that: (A) the Sub-
project does not require the submission, preparation and disclosure of a site-specific EIA, 
EMP or LARAP, as the case may be; or (B) the Sub-project does require the submission, 
preparation and disclosure of a site-specific EIA, EMP or LARAP, as the case may be, 
and such requirements have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2014. 
14
ANNEX  
TO  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
For the purposes of following National Competitive Bidding procedures in the 
procurement of goods, services (other than consultants’ services) and works to be 
financed under the Loan, the following modifications and additions shall apply: 
 
(i) 
Procedures
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts.  Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Narodne Novine) and in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper or at the Project Implementing Entity’s 
website, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of 
bids. 
 
(ii) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex contracts, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (Narodne Novine) and at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper or 
at the Project Implementing Entity’s website a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications.  Minimum experience, 
technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification 
documents, which shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through the use of a 
merit point system. Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder 
who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, 
applying minimum experience, technical and financial requirements which shall be 
explicitly stated in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower’s territory 
shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the Bank’s 
satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
laws and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower’s government.  Said enterprises 
shall be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(iv) 
Bidding Documents
The Project Implementing Entity acting as procuring entity shall use the 
appropriate standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods or services (other 
than consultants’ services), as defined in the paragraph 1.1 of the Guidelines, which shall 
contain draft contract and conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank. 
15
(v) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(1) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened simultaneously 
at the public bid opening. 
 
(2) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  The name of the bidder, the total amount of each bid and any 
discounts offered shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes of the public bid 
opening. 
 
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point system shall not 
be used. 
 
(4) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be granted without the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
 
(5) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(6) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 
(vi) 
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g., more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
 
(vii) 
Rejection of All Bids
(1) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior written concurrence. 
 
(2) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding shall not 
be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(viii) 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; and performance securities not more than ten percent (10%).  No advance 
payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security.  The 
wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
16
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (i) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (ii) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning on April 15, 2014  
 
through October 15, 2023 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
17
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
18
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Co-financier” means the Global Environment Facility or GEF, referred to in 
paragraph 15 of the Appendix to the General Conditions. 
 
4. 
“Co-financing” or “Grant” means an amount equal to six million four hundred 
thousands dollars be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing part of 
the cost of Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project. 
 
5. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-
financing, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Co-financing 
Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
7. 
“Designated Account” means an account into which the Bank may, at the 
Borrower’s request, deposit amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account for the 
purpose of paying for Eligible Expenditures as they are incurred. 
 
8. 
“Environmental Framework” or “EF” means the environmental framework 
adopted by the Borrower on June 23, 2008, setting forth the procedures to be 
used by the Project Implementing Entity for the preparation and approval of a 
Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) specific Environmental Impact Assessment 
and/or Environmental Management Plan for any construction, rehabilitation or 
expansion of waste water services where there exists environmental issues of a 
type and scale sufficient to trigger the Bank’s policies thereon.  
9. 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” or “EIA” means a report identifying and 
assessing the potential environmental impacts of a proposed Sub-project (as 
hereinafter defined), evaluating alternatives, and designing appropriate 
mitigation, management, and monitoring measures. 
19
10. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means a site-specific 
environmental management plan prepared in accordance with the parameters laid 
down in the EF (as hereinafter defined), acceptable to the Bank, to be developed 
by the Project Implementing Entity for each applicable Sub-project, setting forth 
a set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during 
Sub-project implementation and operation to eliminate adverse environmental 
and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, and 
including the actions needed to implement these measures..
11. 
 “EU” means the European Union. 
12. 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s or Project Implementing Entity’s fiscal years, which period 
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year. 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
14. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” or “LARAP” means a site-
specific land acquisition and resettlement action plan to be developed by the 
Project Implementing Entity for each Sub-project which involves Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement in accordance with the parameters laid down in the 
LARPF (as hereinafter defined) and the Operational Manual, and which has been 
found acceptable by the Bank. 
 
15. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” or “LARPF” means the 
land acquisition and resettlement policy framework adopted by the Borrower on 
June 23, 2008, setting forth the principles and objectives governing land 
acquisition and Resettlement preparation and implementation and a description 
of the process for acquiring land and preparing and approving Land Acquisition 
and Resettlement Action Plans. 
 
16. 
“MEPPPC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environmental Protection, 
Physical Planning and Construction, and any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“MRDFWM” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Regional Development, 
Forestry and Water Management, and any successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators for Part 3.2 of the Project” means the 
agreed monitoring and evaluation indicators set forth in a letter of even date 
herewith to be utilized by the Borrower to measure the progress in the 
implementation of Part 3.2 of the Project and the degree to which the objectives 
thereof are being achieved.  
20
 
19. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators for Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project” 
means the agreed monitoring and evaluation indicators set forth in a letter of 
even date herewith to be utilized by the Project Implementing Entity to measure 
the progress in the implementation of Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project and the 
degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved.  
 
20. 
“Municipality” means a local government unit established under the Borrower’s 
laws and eligible, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual (as hereinafter defined), for receiving a Sub-Loan and/or Sub-Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) under Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project. 
21. 
“MWSC” means a Municipal Water and Sewerage Company duly established 
under the Borrower’s laws and eligible, in accordance with the criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), for receiving a Sub-Loan 
and/or Sub-Grant (as hereinafter defined) for Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project; 
 
22. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by HV setting forth eligibility 
criteria for participating Municipalities, MWSCs and Sub-projects (as hereinafter 
defined), the procedures for selecting, appraising, approving and supervising of 
Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined), and the terms and conditions of Sub-Loans 
and Sub-Grants (as hereinafter defined). 
 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
24. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 15, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
25. 
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the unit within the Project 
Implementing Entity responsible for daily implementation of the Project. 
 
26. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Hrvatske Vode (Croatian Waters) or HV, 
the Borrower’s agency responsible for water management. 
 
27. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Water Act 
(Official Gazette No. 107/95) and the Amendment thereto (Official Gazette No. 
150/2005) dated December 29, 2005. 
 
28. 
“Resettlement” means: (i) the involuntary (i.e., an action that may be taken 
without a person’s informed consent or power of choice) taking of land, 
including anything growing on or permanently affixed to such land, such as 
21
buildings and crops, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of 
assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, 
whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas 
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the affected persons, and 
encompassing restrictions on the use of resources imposed on people living 
outside a park or protected area, or on those who continue living inside the park 
or protected area during and after Project implementation.  
 
29. 
“Sub-Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Project 
Implementing Entity out of the proceeds of the Co-financing to a Municipality 
and MWSC for the purposes of carrying out a Sub-project (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part 1.1 of the Project and for Parts 1.2, 2 and 3.1 of the Project. 
 
30. 
“Sub-Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Project 
Implementing Entity out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Municipality and 
MWSC for the purposes of carrying out a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) 
under Part 1.1 of the Project and for Parts 1.2, 2 and 3.1 of the Project. 
 
31. 
“Sub-Loan and/or Sub-Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section I.C.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement pursuant to which the 
Project Implementing Entity shall make a Sub-Loan and/or Sub-Grant to a 
Municipality and MWSC. 
 
32. 
“Sub-Project” means an investment project eligible, in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and/or Co-financing under Part 1.1 of the Project. 
 
33. 
“Subsidiary Grant” means the grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Co-financing to the Project Implementing 
Entity for the purposes of carrying out Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project. 
 
34. 
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Implementing Entity for the 
purposes of carrying out Parts 1, 2 and 3.1 of the Project. 
 
35. 
“Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower 
shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan and Co-financing available to 
the Project Implementing Entity.  
 
22
36. 
“Water Management Strategy” means the Borrower’s strategy identifying the 
sector investments and institutional capacity needed to meet EU directives and 
whose main objectives are to increase sewerage coverage and construct and 
upgrade the existing wastewater treatment plants to meet EU environmental 
standards. 
 
Section II.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
23
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”
 
