 
  
 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7732-BR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Additional Financing for the Bahia State Integrated Project: Rural Poverty  
Projeto Integrado do Estado da Bahia: Pobreza Rural – Projeto de Combate à Pobreza 
Rural no Interior do Estado da Bahia – Produzir III) 
 
between 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
and 
 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 9, 2010
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
  
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 9, 2010 , between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and the STATE OF BAHIA 
(“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).   
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined and modified in the Appendix to this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is its Secretary for Development and Regional Integration. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
  
 
- 2 - 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection 
of the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance,  request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by CAR in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.  
 
  
 
- 3 - 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the 
Technical Cooperation Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower or CAR to perform any of their obligations under the Technical 
Cooperation Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of 120 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Technical Cooperation Agreement has been signed on behalf of the 
Borrower, through its Secretariat for Development and Regional Integration, and 
CAR in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Technical Cooperation Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and CAR and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and CAR in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Loan has been duly registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank.  
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan 
which expire on January 27, 2011. 
 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is its Governor. 
  
 
- 4 - 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretariat for Development and Regional Integration 
Avenida Luiz Viana Filho, Conjunto SEPLAN  
Centro Administrativo da Bahia 
Salvador, BA, 41745-000 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3371-0015 
 
 
 
With copies to: 
 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
Brasília, DF, 70040-906 
 
Brazil  
 
 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006 
 
And to: 
 
 
CAR - Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Ação Regional 
 
Avenida Luiz Viana Filho Conjunto Seplan, CAB 
 
Salvador, BA, 41745-000 
 
Brazil  
 
Facsimile:  (55-71) 3371-0015 
 
 
Secretaria do Planejamento 
Avenida Luiz Viana Filho 
Segunda Avenida, 250 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia 
Salvador, BA, 41745-000 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-3945 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda 
Avenida Luiz Viana Filho 
Segunda Avenida, 260 
Centro Administrativo da Bahia 
Salvador, BA, 41745-000 
Brazil 
Facsimile: (55-71) 3115-8802 
  
 
- 5 - 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at Salvador, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
STATE OF BAHIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Jaques Wagner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
  
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase social and economic opportunities for 
Municipalities’ rural poor by improving their access to basic social and economic 
infrastructure, thus contributing to the Borrower’s objective of increasing its Human 
Development Index. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part 1: Community Subprojects 
 
 
Financing of grants for small scale community investments (Community 
Subprojects) consisting, inter alia, of: (a) infrastructure investments such as for rural 
water supply and electrification; (b) social investments such as construction of day care 
centers and rehabilitation of schools and health posts; and (c) other productive 
investments such as for small-scale community agro-processing and minor irrigation 
schemes. 
 
Part 2: Institutional Development 
 
 (a)  
Provision of technical assistance and training for Community 
Associations in, inter alia, community mobilization and organization, 
preparation of Community Subprojects and operation and maintenance of 
such Community Subprojects.     
(b) 
Provision of training to the Municipal Councils and to CAR with respect 
to their role and responsibilities, the contents of the Operational Manual, 
subproject evaluation and supervision, environmental assessment of 
Community 
Subprojects, 
participatory 
planning 
and 
financial 
management.  
 
Part 3: Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
 
Provision of support for the overall Project implementation, coordination, 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by CAR. 
  
 
- 7 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain CAR 
with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall continue, through CAR: (a) preparing and furnishing to the 
Bank annual operating plans and budgets, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the 
Project activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding year and 
the respective sources of funding therefor, by October 30 of each year during 
Project implementation; and (b) furnishing to the Bank the approved annual 
operating plans and respective budgets referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each year in question, not later than 30 days after the approval of the 
Borrower's annual budget by its Assembléia Legislativa (Legislative Assembly). 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall continue, through CAR, carrying out the Project in accordance 
with the Operational Manual, the Environmental Management Plan, the Indigenous 
Peoples’ Plan, all as updated in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and in 
accordance with the approved annual operating plans and respective budgets, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
B. 
Technical Cooperation Agreement  
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by CAR, the Borrower shall maintain 
the Technical Cooperation Agreement and make the proceeds of the Loan 
available to CAR under said Technical Cooperation Agreement between the 
Borrower and CAR, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank as further 
specified in the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Technical Cooperation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Technical Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
  
 
- 8 - 
D. 
Community Sub-projects 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make Area Grants to Community Associations in accordance 
with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as further detailed 
in the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through CAR, shall enter into Area Grant Agreements appropriate 
for the carrying out of the Project, such agreements to be made in accordance 
with terms of the respective draft set forth in model forms approved by the Bank 
and included in the Operational Manual (the Model Forms) in which the 
Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the 
Bank, including the right to: (1) suspend or terminate the right of a Community 
Association to use the proceeds of the Area Grant, or obtain a refund of all or any 
part of the amount of the Area Grant then withdrawn, upon the Community 
Association’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Area Grant 
Agreement; and (2) require each Community Association to:  (a) carry out its 
Community Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social 
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan 
proceeds other than the Borrower, the Environmental Management Plan and the 
Indigenous Peoples’ Plan; (b) provide, promptly as needed, the resources 
required for the purpose; (c) procure the goods, works and services to be financed 
out of the Area Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in 
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the 
Community Subproject and the achievement of its objectives; (e) (i) maintain a 
simplified financial management system and records in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank for community 
driven initiatives, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Community Subproject; and (ii) at the Bank’s or 
the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so 
audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (f) enable the Borrower and the Bank to 
inspect the Community Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents; and (g) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Area Grant Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Area Grant 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
  
 
- 9 - 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than January 31, 2014. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of each 
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
 
Section III. 
Procurement  
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ Services.   All goods, works and non-
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
  
 
- 10 - 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and non-consultants’ services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ 
Services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
non-consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provision, 
namely that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
(b)  Shopping  
(c)  Community Participation procedures for Part 1 of the Project for contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent, as described in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following 
table specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
 
  
 
- 11 - 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least-Cost Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Single-Source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
  
 
- 12 - 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Dollars) 
 
% of Expenditures  
to be Financed 
 
(1) Goods, works and 
services required for 
Community Subprojects 
supported by: 
 
(a) Area 1 Grants 
(b) Area 2 Grants 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10,400,000 
15,600,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
75% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services                    
and training for Parts 2 
and 3 of the Project 
2,700,000 
 
100% 
(3) Administrative Costs 
 
(a) incremental 
     operational costs 
(b) Project supervision 
and monitoring costs 
 
 
220,000 
 
330,000 
 
 
 
20% 
 
50% 
 
(4) Front-end Fee 
          75,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
(5) Premium for Interest 
Rate Caps and Collars 
          0 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 4.04 of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Unallocated 
675,000 
 
TOTAL 
             30,000,000 
 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made within twelve months prior to such date for Eligible 
Expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3).   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2013.  The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank 
that it agrees with such extension. 
  
 
- 13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning 
September 
15, 
2015  
 
through March 15, 2038 
 
 
2.13% 
On September 15, 2038 
2.02% 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
  
 
- 14 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
  
 
- 15 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Administrative Costs” means the operational costs (which would not have 
occurred absent the Project, including, inter alia, equipment and computer 
maintenance, office supplies, utilities, and rent for office facilities) and the 
supervision and monitoring costs of the Project incurred by CAR under Part 3 of 
the Project (including, inter alia, operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, 
fuel, spare parts and insurance, maintenance of the monitoring and information 
system, travel and per diem costs for technical staff of CAR carrying out training, 
supervisory and quality control activities, but  excluding expenditures for salaries 
and related benefits). 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Area Grants” means Area 1 Grants or Area 2 Grants. 
 
4. 
“Area Grant Agreements” means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower through CAR and a Community Association for an Area 
Grant.  
 
5. 
“Area 1 Grant” means grants to be made by the Borrower through CAR to a 
Community Association for the financing of the Community Subprojects in the 
Borrower’s 100 Municipalities with the lowest Human Development Index.  
 
6. 
“Area 2 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community 
Association for the financing of Community Subprojects in the Borrower’s 
Municipalities other than the Municipalities benefiting from Area 1 Grants.      
 
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“CAR” means  Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Ação Regional , the 
Borrower’s development agency for regional activities, as created and operating 
under the Borrower’s Law (Lei Delegada) No. 30, dated March 3, 1983. 
 
9. 
“Community Association” means an association a civil association formed by 
members of a community (associação civil) duly established in the Borrower's 
territory in accordance with the Guarantor's laws, and which meets the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual for participating in the Project. 
 
  
 
- 16 - 
10. 
"Community Subproject" means any investment referred to in Part 1 of the Project 
to be carried out by a Community Association utilizing the proceeds of an Area 
Grant, and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
11. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the document dated August 1, 2008, 
as published and available to the public on the website www.car.ba.gov.br which 
contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including 
measures for chance finding of cultural property and pest management, 
identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and 
indirect environmental impacts from the carrying out of the Project, including 
Community Subprojects, recommendation of mitigation measures for each 
negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified 
positive impact. 
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
14. 
“Human Development Index” means the index which is measured by the 
Guarantor’s Instituto de Pesquisas Econômicas Aplicadas – (IPEA) on the basis 
of the indicators for education, health, and income in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
15. 
“Indigenous Peoples’Plan” means the document dated December 1, 2008, as 
published and available to the public on the website www.car.ba.gov.br which 
contains protection measures in favor of indigenous peoples  located in the 
Borrower’s territory, including the description and location of indigenous areas in 
the Borrower’s territory, strategy for the participation of indigenous peoples in the 
Project with due respect to their cultural identity, institutional partnerships, process 
of participation, risks and mitigating measures, and monitoring and evaluation 
procedures. 
 
16. 
“Model Forms” means the set of model draft Area Grant Agreements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.  
 
17. 
“Municipal Council” means a municipal council, composed mainly of 
representatives of communities and local organizations, as provided in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
18. 
“Municipality” or “Municipalities” means any and all the municipalities in the 
Borrower’s territory which are eligible to receive an Area Grant pursuant to the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
  
 
- 17 - 
 
19. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project dated 
May 26, 2009 referred to in Section I.A.3. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
approved by the Borrower and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which includes, inter alia, the following: (a) procedures to be followed (i) in the 
event that environmental issues are identified on the checklist for Community 
Subprojects; (ii) to identify and address potential cumulative environmental 
impacts from multiple Community Subprojects; and (iii) to ensure an integrated 
pest management approach in irrigation investments; (b) a description of the 
consultations carried out in respect of the Environmental Management Plan; (c) 
the Environmental Management Plan and the Indigenous Peoples’ Plan; and (d) a 
revised Model Form consistent with the requirements of Section I.D.2. of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
20. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project 
between the Bank and the Borrower, dated December 14, 2005 (Loan No. 7327-
BR). 
 
21. 
 “Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
23. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 8, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
24. 
“Technical Cooperation Agreement” means an agreement (Convênio) to be 
signed between the Borrower, through its Secretariat for Development and 
Regional Integration, and CAR for the implementation of the Project and in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
  
 
- 18 - 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association (“Preparation 
Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the 
Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the 
withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such 
withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn 
to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
...(l)  Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
 
