CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7883-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Urban Transport Transformation Project) 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. 
 
Dated July 21, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7883-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 21, 2010, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS 
Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (“Borrower”).   
(A) 
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the United Mexican States 
(the Guarantor), through SHCP, and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has 
agreed to guarantee the Loan Payment obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan; 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (the CTF Loan Agreement), the 
Bank, acting as an implementing agency of the Clean Technology Fund, has agreed to extend to 
the Borrower a loan in the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000) to assist in 
financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth in the CTF Loan Agreement.  
 
(C) 
WHEREAS the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set 
forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting 
the Project), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the public debt law of the 
United Mexican States and the terms of this Agreement. 
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million Dollars 
($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
(a) 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section 2.05, if the Borrower requests, 
pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07 below, a Conversion of the Loan Currency 
into Mexican pesos, upon the Bank’s execution of such Conversion, the 
Borrower shall pay interest on the converted Withdrawn Loan Balance on the 
15th day of each calendar month.  Notices with respect to the interest due on such 
converted amount may be given by the Bank to the Borrower through electronic 
means as provided in Section 10.01 of the General Conditions; such notices will 
be sent to the Borrower at such electronic mail address as the Borrower shall 
have designated by notice to the Bank for the purposes of receiving such 
information. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
3
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall cause the Eligible Beneficiaries to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and pursuant to the terms and 
conditions of the relevant Credit Agreements. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
(i) The right to withdraw the proceeds of the CTF Loan Agreement has been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the CTF Loan Agreement; or (ii) the loan under the CTF Loan Agreement has 
become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity. 
(b) 
Any Eligible Beneficiary shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the relevant Credit Agreement or a situation shall have arisen so as to materially 
and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of any Eligible 
Beneficiary to carry out its obligations under the relevant Credit Agreement, in 
which cases the Bank may suspend Loan disbursements with respect to the 
above-cited Eligible Beneficiary (and related Subproject) that has so failed to 
perform, or whose ability to perform has been materially and adversely affected. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The CTF Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) 
have been fulfilled. 
4
(b) 
The Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual. 
 
5.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on September 
25, 2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its General Director (Director General). 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. 
Javier Barros Sierra, 515 
Colonia Lomas de Santa Fe, Delegación Álvaro Obregón 
Mexico DF, 01219 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
(52-55) 5270-1200 
(52-55) 5270-1564 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y  
SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. 
 
By /s/ Alonso García Tamés  
 
Authorized Representative 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the transformation of urban transport in 
Mexican cities toward a lower carbon growth path. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1. Capacity building
Provision of technical assistance and training to the Eligible Beneficiaries for the 
development and/or strengthening of the local urban transport development process in the 
Participating Entities, including, inter alia:
(i) 
the preparation, update or completion of Integral Transport Plans (ITP), which 
will include climate change mitigation considerations;   
 
(ii) 
the development of plans for modernizing traffic management and for efficient 
allocation of public space for transport and non-motorized modes;  
 
(iii) 
support to urban transport institutions or regional transport coordination 
commissions which are responsible for sector coordination, modal and fare 
integration promotion and updating of ITPs; and 
 
(iv) 
training of local government staff and other civil servants in areas such as 
transport system inventory, urban transport planning and programming, traffic 
management, formulation of urban transport projects including bus rapid transit 
projects, traffic safety, non-motorized transport modes, environmental and social 
evaluation and rehabilitation and maintenance of roads.  
 
Part 2. Development of Integrated Transit Systems that reduce CO2 emissions
Development of integrated transit systems that contribute to the reduction of CO2 
emissions in the Borrower’s cities within the context of the ENACC and the PECC, by 
approximately 1.96 million tons per year beginning in 2017, through the carrying out of the 
following activities: 
 
A. Mass transit corridors and ancillary investments
(a) Provision of financing for the development of Integrated Mass Transit Corridors (IMTC) 
in the Participating Entities, including, inter alia:
the preparation, design, 
construction, supervision, maintenance and rehabilitation of roads for trunk lines and 
feeder roads, terminals, yards, transfer and access stations, mixed traffic lanes, and 
the acquisition of rolling stock, signaling, control centers, information systems, 
environmental monitoring equipment, and fare collection systems.  
 
7
(b) Provision of financing for ancillary carbon-reduction transport investments, including, 
inter alia: the adoption of traffic management measures, non-motorized transport, 
design of and implementation of universal access facilities, carrying out of studies 
and design of facilitates for bike-transit integration, parking space and transfer 
stations, vehicle use restriction, public space improvements, including sidewalks, 
adoption of safety and security programs, design of land use density and clustering 
plans, intelligent transportation, transport demand management marketing and 
promotion, freight management and car free planning. 
 
B. Low carbon rolling stock  technologies and scrapping of displaced buses
(a) Provision of financing for the acquisition of low-carbon rolling stock to be operated 
in the Participating Entities. 
 
(b) Provision of finance for programs concerning the scrapping of old and displaced 
buses, including, inter alia: (i) building institutional capacity to develop and/or adopt 
clean and environmentally sound scrapping strategies (collection, dismantling and 
final disposal); (ii) the purchasing of displaced rolling stock; and (iii) financing of the 
scrapping process, defined as the collection, destruction and recycling of steel scrap 
and disposal of non recyclable materials. 
 
Part 3. Project management
Provision of support (including the implementation of a technical monitoring system) to 
the Eligible Beneficiaries for the supervision and monitoring of the implementation of the 
Subprojects in the Participating Entities.  
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Operational Manual 
without the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall select each Subproject in accordance with the eligible criteria and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, established in the PROTRAM Guidelines, and the 
Operational Manual.  
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
C. 
Subprojects and Credit Agreements
1. 
The Borrower shall make Sub-loans to Eligible Beneficiaries in accordance with 
eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual 
and in accordance with current internal practices of the Borrower.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall make each Sub-loan under a Credit Agreement with the respective 
Eligible Beneficiary (Contrato de Crédito), on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, in 
which the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Bank, 
including the right to:  
 
(a) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-
loan, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-loan then withdrawn, 
upon the Eligible Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Credit 
Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
require each Eligible Beneficiary to:  (i) carry out its Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, 
environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
Recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower and with the provisions of the 
ESMF; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (iii) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Sub-loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement; (iv) maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the progress of the Subproject and the achievement of its objectives; (v) (A) maintain a 
9
financial management system and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Subproject; 
and (B) at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so 
audited to the Borrower and the Bank; (vi) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect 
the Subproject, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (vii) prepare 
and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the Borrower or the 
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Credit Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any Credit Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
D. 
Safeguards
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out and/or shall cause each Eligible Beneficiary to carry out 
Part 1 and 2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions and recommendations of the 
ESMF. 
2. 
The Borrower shall and/or shall cause each Eligible Beneficiary to, prior to the carrying 
out of any works under any Subproject: (a) carry out, or cause to be carried out, an 
environmental screening/assessment of each of the pertinent works, and if needed, as 
determined by the Bank, approve or cause to be approved, an environmental management 
plan or similar environmental instrument, acceptable to the Bank, for each of said works 
(which plan or similar environmental instrument shall be based on the results of the 
pertinent screening/assessment mentioned herein, and the Bank’s comments on the 
results of said screening/assessment, if any); and (b) immediately after said approval, 
implement and/or cause to be implemented, the corresponding plan (or similar 
environmental instrument) in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
If as a result of the carrying out of the screening/assessment process mentioned in Section 
I.D 2. of this Schedule, it is determined by the Bank that resettlement will be involved in 
respect of any given works under the Project, the Borrower shall, and/or shall cause each 
Eligible Beneficiary to: (i) prior to the commencement of any said works under the 
territorial jurisdiction of the relevant Participating Entity, prepare (and/or cause to be 
prepared) and furnish to the Bank, a resettlement plan (acceptable to the Bank), which 
plan shall be based on the provisions of the relevant Resettlement Framework; and (ii) 
immediately after, implement and/or cause to be implemented (as the case may be) the 
corresponding resettlement plan in accordance with its terms, and in a manner acceptable 
to the Bank.  
10 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the Operational 
Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than three months after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the Effective Date occurs.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
11 
 
4.
Special Provisions.  The Borrower shall: (a) supply the SEPA with the information 
contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 45 days after the Project has been 
approved by the Bank; and (b) update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as 
needed through the duration of the Project, to reflect the actual Project implementation 
needs and progress and supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated 
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except, as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods (US<$3000,000) and works (US$<15,000,000).  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior approval 
(d) Procurement under BOO (Built, Own, Operate) /BOT (Built, Operate, Transfer) 
/BOOT (Built, Own, Operate, Transfer), Concessions and Similar Private Sector 
Arrangements acceptable to the Bank.  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except, as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Fixed Budget Selection 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Single Source Selection, subject to the Bank’s prior approval 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
12 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive Taxes)  
(1) 
Consultants’ 
services 
and 
Training for Part 1 of the 
Project 
 
5,000,000 
 
100% 
(2)    Goods, works and consultants’ 
services for Part 2.A of the 
Project 
 110,000,000 
100% 
(3)   Goods, works and consultants’ 
services for Part 2.B of the 
Project 
 35,000,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 150,000,000 
 
3. 
For purposes of this Section IV. A, the term “Training” means non-consultant 
expenditures incurred in connection with the provision of training under the Project, 
including training fees, logistics, materials, and reasonable cost of travel and per diem of 
trainers and trainees. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments made prior to this date but on or after August 24, 2009 (but in no 
13 
 
case earlier than one year from the date of this Agreement), for Eligible 
Expenditures; or   
 
(c) 
for payments to finance Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3) in 
respect of any Subproject to be carried out by any Eligible Beneficiary, unless: (i) 
the Borrower has carried out and submitted to the Bank a satisfactory financial 
management assessment of the relevant Eligible Beneficiary as described in the 
Operational Manual; (ii) the relevant Credit Agreement has been signed by the 
parties thereto; and (iii) the Borrower and/or the Eligible Beneficiary have 
complied with the requirements of Section I.D.2 and 3 (if applicable) of this 
Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2017. 
14 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall repay each 
Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and December 
15, the first installment to be payable on the 7th Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and the last installment to be payable on 
the 26th Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed 
Amount. Each installment except for the last one shall be as specified in the Table below.  
The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed 
Amount.  
 
Principal Payment Date 
(each June 15 and December 15 beginning 
on  the 7th Interest Payment Date following 
the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed 
Amount) 
Installment Share of Disbursed Amount 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
7th Interest Payment Date 
3.91% 
8th Interest Payment Date 
4.01% 
9th Interest Payment Date 
4.11% 
10th Interest Payment Date 
4.21% 
11th Interest Payment Date 
4.32% 
12th Interest Payment Date 
4.42% 
13th Interest Payment Date 
4.53% 
14th Interest Payment Date 
4.65% 
15th Interest Payment Date 
4.76% 
16th Interest Payment Date 
4.88% 
17th Interest Payment Date 
5.01% 
18th Interest Payment Date 
5.13% 
19th Interest Payment Date 
5.26% 
20th Interest Payment Date 
5.39% 
21th Interest Payment Date 
5.52% 
22th Interest Payment Date 
5.66% 
23th Interest Payment Date 
5.80% 
24th Interest Payment Date 
5.95% 
25th Interest Payment Date 
6.10% 
26th Interest Payment Date 
6.38% 
2. 
If any one or more installments of principal of the Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, be payable after June 15, 2030, the 
Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
15 
 
3. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each Disbursed 
Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the event 
of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency. 
 
16 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“BRT” means bus rapid transit system. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Credit Agreements” means any of the agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each of the Eligible Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined), referred to in 
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make 
Sub-loans (as hereinafter defined) to the Eligible Beneficiaries. 
6. 
“CTF Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank, acting not in its individual capacity but solely in its capacity as 
an implementing entity of the Clean Technology Fund (“CTF”), referred to in Whereas 
clause (B) of this Agreement. 
7. 
“Eligible Beneficiaries” means the Guarantor’s Federal District, a state or municipality or 
any public or private entity (with legal personality) in the Guarantor’s territory, which is 
eligible for participation in the Project and for carrying out a Subproject according to the 
eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, to which the 
Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan. 
8. 
“ENACC” means the Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climático, the national strategy for 
Climate Change published by the Guarantor in www.semarnat.gob.mx in May 2007. 
9. 
“ESMF” means Environmental and Social Management Framework (Marco de 
Salvaguarda Ambiental y Social para el Transporte Urbano – MASTU), the Borrower’s 
environmental and social framework for the Project, disclosed on January 2009 and 
updated on February 18, 2010, which includes specific procedures to address the direct 
and indirect environmental impacts of the Project’s activities and specific guidelines and 
procedures to prevent, mitigate or compensate eventual environmental and social 
impacts, including the guidelines for carrying out the environmental/social 
screenings/assessments referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as 
well as a Resettlement Framework (as hereinafter defined). Such document constitutes an 
integral part of the Operational Manual and may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of both the Borrower and the Bank. 
17 
 
10. 
 “FONADIN” means Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura, the national 
infrastructure fund established pursuant to the Guarantor’s Decree published in the 
Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la Federación on February 7, 2008, with the purpose of 
coordinating federal investment in infrastructure, mainly in the communications, 
transport, water, environment and tourism sectors.     
11. 
“FONADIN Technical Committee” means the technical committee (Comité Técnico)
of FONADIN, as defined in the Decree referred to in definition (11) of Section I of this 
Appendix and with the structure, procedures and functions defined under the Fourth 
Modifying Agreement (as hereinafter defined). 
 
12. 
“Fourth Modifying Agreement” means the Cuarto Convenio Modificatorio al 
Contrato de Fideicomiso de Administración y Fuente de Pago Número 1936, dated May 
6, 2008, entered into between  the Borrower, in its capacity as financial agent of the 
Guarantor  and the Borrower, in its capacity of fiduciary institution, and with the 
participation of Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, with the purpose of modifying 
and merging the FARAC - Fideicomiso de Apoyo para el Rescate de Autopistas 
Concesionadas into FONADIN.  
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
14. 
“GHG” means greenhouse gases. 
15. 
 “IMTC” means integrated mass transit corridor, a high capacity public transport system 
that entail improvements in infrastructure, technology, operations and institutional 
characteristics in order to provide users with high quality service and that results in 
emission reductions. 
16. 
“ITPs” means integral transport plan or Plan Integral de Movilidad Urbana  
Sustentable (PIMUS) or equivalent, as defined in the PROTRAM Guidelines (as 
hereinafter defined). 
 
17. 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, satisfactory to the Bank setting 
out the operational and administrative rules, procedures and formats for evaluation, 
approval, processing, financing implementation and supervision of Sub-Projects, 
including inter alia: (i) the carrying out of financial management activities (including 
reporting and audits) for the Project; (ii) the carrying out of procurement; (iii) Project 
monitoring, evaluation and reporting thereon (including the indicators referred to in 
Schedule 2, Section II.A of this Agreement); and (iv) the ESMF. Said manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of both the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
18. 
 “Participating Entity” means a the Guarantor’s Federal District, a state or 
municipality in the Guarantor’s territory where a Subproject will be implemented by an 
Eligible Beneficiary “PECC” means the Programa Especial de Cambio Climático, the 
Borrower’s special program for combating climate change while establishing the sectoral 
18 
 
level interventions that will result in GreenHouse Gas emission reductions, published in 
the Borrower’s Diario Oficial de la Federación on August 28, 2009, which provides an 
accounting of emissions by sector, creates a framework for monitoring improvements and 
establishes a blueprint for emission reduction initiatives, sector by sector.   
 
19. 
“PECC” means the Programa Especial de Cambio Climático, the Borrower’s special 
program for combating climate change while establishing the sectoral level interventions 
that will result in GreenHouse Gas emission reductions, published in the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación on August 28, 2009, which provides an accounting of 
emissions by sector, creates a framework for monitoring improvements and establishes a 
blueprint for emission reduction initiatives, sector by sector.   
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 6 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
22. 
“Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for which the 
Loan is extended, as the description of such project may be amended from time to time 
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.  
 
23. 
“PROTRAM” means Programa de Apoyo Federal al Transporte Masivo, the 
Borrower’s support program for mass transit, established pursuant to Resolution 
(Acuerdo) of FONADIN Technical Committee’s meeting of December 17, 2008.  
 
24. 
“PROTRAM Guidelines” means the Lineamientos del Programa de Apoyo Federal 
al Transporte Masivo approved by a Resolution of FONADIN Technical Committee on 
December 17, 2008, as approved to be amended on May 14, 2010 by Resolution CT/2A 
ORD/14-MAYO-2010/XXIII of FONADIN Technical Committee.    
 
25. 
“Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s  framework, included in the ESMF 
(as defined above), which includes, inter alia, the principles and objectives governing 
resettlement preparation and implementation, a description of the process for preparing 
and approving resettlement plans, and the applicable legal framework to address 
resettlement issues under the Project. 
 
26. 
“SEPA” means the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans Execution System. 
 
27. 
SHCP” means the Guarantor’s Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público; the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
28. 
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, through a Credit Agreement, to an Eligible Beneficiary, for 
purposes of financing the expenditures incurred by the Eligible Beneficiary for goods, 
works and services under Part 1 and/or 2 of the Project. 
 
19 
 
29. 
“Subproject” means a specific activity under Part 2 of the Project, selected to be 
financed under the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedures of the 
Operational Manual, which is proposed to be carried out by an Eligible Beneficiary 
through the utilization of the proceeds of a Sub-loan, in accordance with the provisions of 
the relevant Credit Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or 
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall 
pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association.” 
 
