 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7877-PA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Panama Metro Water and Sanitation Improvement Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 16, 2010 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated December 16, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million Dollars ($ 40,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided that, 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are July 15 and January 15 in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by IDAAN in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
IDAAN’s Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
IDAAN to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and 
 
(b)  
IDAAN shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall have occurred and shall 
be continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the events shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and IDAAN; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower shall have caused IDAAN to adopt the Operational 
Manual, satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank; and 
 
(c)  
the Borrower shall have caused EPU to be established within IDAAN 
with key staff having qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement shall have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and IDAAN and shall be legally binding upon the 
Borrower and IDAAN in accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual shall have been duly adopted by IDAAN on 
behalf of the Borrower in accordance with the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Borrower. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline shall be the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but 
in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the 
Loan which shall expire on November 18, 2011.  
 
- 4 - 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas   
Dirección de Crédito Público 
 
Edificio Ogawa, 4 piso 
 
Vía España  
 
Apartado 0816-02886 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
 
Telephone: 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
  
(507) 507-7202  
 
 
(507) 507-7200 
(507) 507-7204  
 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ 
 
 
 
By /s/ Jaime E. Aleman Healy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing the quality, 
coverage and efficiency of its water supply and sanitation services in the lower income 
neighborhoods of selected areas of PMR. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1: Improving Water Supply and Sanitation Services in Lower Income 
 
Neighborhoods 
 
Following the design of WSS solutions based on a participatory approach, the provision 
of support, including therein civil works and technical services, in relation to:  
 
1. 
The development of a WSS master plan for selected areas of PMR, including all 
pertinent studies and assessments needed in that respect. 
 
2. 
The underlying assessment for, researching about, and ensuing development of, a 
proposal for adapting IDAAN commercial practices  and technical procedures to 
lower income areas and the carrying out of assessments and studies to determine 
constraints to lower income household sanitation connection rates. 
 
3. 
The preparation of engineering designs and related bidding documents for the 
commissioning of works in accordance with the implementation strategy set forth 
in the WSS master plan. 
 
Part 2:  Modernizing the WSS System in IDAAN’s Colón Business Unit 
  
Improving the efficiency and quality of WSS services in IDAAN’s business unit of Colón 
through the provision of support in relation to: 
 
1. 
Increasing access to WSS infrastructure for about 7000 households in Colón. 
2. 
Improving existing WSS systems and urban drainage through, inter alia:  (a) the 
rehabilitation of the Sabanitas water treatment plant; (b) the carrying out of 
studies leading to the design of adequate hydraulic solutions that will 
subsequently allow the carrying out of works needed in respect of WSS system 
and urban drainage;(c) the development of a comprehensive master plan for 
integral sanitation and drainage systems.  
 
 
 
- 7 - 
3. 
Enhancing commercial and operational efficiency, including through, inter alia:  
(a) the carrying out of pertinent studies and the implementation of related works 
and acquisition of related goods to ensure a reduction in water losses; (b) the 
strengthening of all of IDAAN’s commercial life cycle activities in order to 
increase  revenue collection, including through inter alia, maintenance of an 
updated customer billing database, meter installation campaigns, billing process 
enhancement, development of strategies to secure customer payment and 
improvement in customer services and clientele satisfaction, including, in 
connection therewith,  the modernization of selected IDAAN’s facilities, 
workshops and customer service centers. 
 
4. 
The management of water demand, through, inter alia, the carrying out of: (a) 
repair and retro-fitting of domiciliary installations; and (b) communication 
activities linked with demand management. 
 
5. 
The design and subsequent implementation of IDAAN’s Colón unit business 
communication strategy to raise customer awareness of IDAAN’s social action 
policies.  
 
Part 3: Institutional Strengthening and Project Management, Monitoring and        
 
Evaluation 
 
Provision of support pertinent to ensure, inter alia, the carrying out of: 
 
1. 
Institutional strengthening activities through, inter alia: (a) the establishment and 
operation of a monitoring and information system  for monitoring and  evaluation  
activities and sound data collection processes to feed information pertinent to 
IDAAN’s decision making; (b) the  building of capacity in sector operational best 
practices and management enhancement for selected IDAAN staff and 
management personnel.  
 
2. 
Project management, monitoring, reporting, auditing and evaluation activities, 
including, inter alia, in respect of the implementation of IRF, IPPF and EMF and 
the provision of training and capacity building in relation to said activities.   
- 8 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements  
 
The Borrower shall cause IDAAN to: 
 
1. 
assign responsibility internally for the overall implementation, coordination, 
monitoring and reporting of the Project among corporate departments, 
directorates, divisions, subdivisions, central or regional units described in detail 
in the OM, including, inter alia, its environment, planning, finance and 
procurement departments; 
 
2. 
(a) 
maintain, throughout Project implementation, an external project unit 
 
(“EPU”):  
 
(i) 
operating with structure, mandate and resources satisfactory at 
all times to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
entrusted with exclusive responsibility for ensuring the overall 
planning and coordination of the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
headed by a Coordinator and staffed with a small dedicated team 
of professionals described in the OM, each having relevant and 
established expertise in carrying out, technically assisting in, and  
monitoring, the various Project implementation activities;  
 
(b) 
not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, appoint under a 
renewable 2 year contract, a Technical Advisor selected in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to 
provide technical assistance in relation to Project implementation, 
subject to the requirement that, within 6 months of the end of the 2 year 
contractual appointment  mentioned above, an assessment of the 
technical capacity of EPU for further Project implementation shall be 
carried out jointly with the Bank, after which determination the transfer 
of the technical responsibility for Project implementation may 
thenceforward, as agreed with the Bank, be transferred exclusively to 
EPU; and 
 
 
- 9 - 
3. 
establish, not later than six (6) months after the Effective date, and thereafter 
maintain throughout Project implementation, the following Project governance 
compliance structures: 
 
(a) 
a committee (“Steering Committee”) consisting of all IDAAN’s 
management to oversee Project implementation on a regular basis and  
provide overall guidance thereon, with the key responsibilities and 
purposes described in the Operational Manual, including, inter alia: (i) 
reviewing the performance of each implementing unit of IDAAN in 
discharging the implementation of the relevant part of the Project 
assigned to it; and (ii) deciding on strategic issues regarding Project 
implementation; and 
 
(b) 
a committee (the “Inter-institutional Committee”) to serve as an inter-
institutional coordination mechanism regarding the implementation of 
Part 1 of the Project, under the leadership of the Coordinator and with 
membership drawn from, inter alia, MEF and the Borrower’s ministry of 
health (“MINSA”); ministry of housing (“MIVI”); and ministry of public 
works (“MOP”), all as further set forth in detail in the OM. 
 
B. 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate IDAAN’s carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to IDAAN under a subsidiary agreement entered 
into between the Borrower and IDAAN (“the Subsidiary Agreement”), under 
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, among which, inter alia, the 
requirement that IDAAN shall comply with the terms of this Agreement, the OM, 
the Anti-corruption guidelines, the EMF, IRF and the IPPF for the Project 
(“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
C. 
Implementation documents 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause IDAAN to adopt an operational manual (“OM”) for the 
Project, satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank, consisting of different 
schedules setting forth, respectively, rules, methods, guidelines, specific 
development plans, standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of 
the Project, including the following: 
 
- 10 - 
(a) 
(i) the description of Project implementation activities, their sequencing 
and the prospective timetable and benchmarks in relation thereto; (ii) the 
qualification, experience, functions, responsibilities, structure  of key 
staff of IDAAN,  the composition of selected committees under the 
Project, all the institutional arrangements in respect thereof and the 
ensuing assignment of respective responsibilities for the Project 
activities, including, inter alia, the financing, reporting and auditing 
aspects thereof;  
 
(b) 
(i) 
the 
Project 
administrative, 
financial, 
accounting, 
auditing, 
procurement and disbursement procedures, including all relevant 
standard documents and SDBs; and (ii) the procurement thresholds in 
respect of the procurement methods set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule and all associated reviews by the Bank under this Project; 
 
(c) 
provisions to guide works under the Project (which shall include, inter 
alia, the Environmental Management Framework, the Indigenous 
Peoples Planning Framework and the Involuntary Resettlement 
Framework, provisions for erosion control, protection of cultural 
property under chance find, first aid instructions and restriction on the 
use of child labor); 
 
(d) 
the overview of planned capacity building and training activities, 
including workshops and study tours, to be carried out for purposes of 
the Project; 
 
(e) 
the final form of the interim unaudited financial reports and Financial 
Statements for the Project and the terms of reference for the financial 
audits of the Project; 
 
(f) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the Project, 
including all technical, environmental, and social aspects in relation 
thereto; and 
 
(g) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause IDAAN to: (a) maintain the OM throughout Project 
implementation; (b) take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project is 
carried out in conformity with the OM; and (c) only amend the OM, from time to 
time, with the Bank’s prior consent. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not, and shall cause IDAAN not to, (including not allowing any 
party to any contract entered into with IDAAN for purposes of this Loan),   
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual, including 
thereto attached, the EMF, the IPPF and the IRF or any respective provisions 
thereof. 
- 11 - 
3. 
In the event of a conflict between any provision of the Operational Manual and 
any one under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
D. 
Additional Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause IDAAN to require that: 
 
(a) 
all the procurement of works under the Project shall be carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement, the Procurement Guidelines, and the Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
all contractors and consultants providing goods or carrying out works 
and services under the Project carry out their activities under the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social 
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance 
with the provisions of the EMF, IPPF and IRF  and the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines applicable to recipients of Loan proceeds other than the 
Borrower, and the applicable provisions of the Operational Manual; 
 
(c) 
all bidding documents and contracts under the Project incorporate the 
environmental and social standards satisfactory to the Bank and provide 
the Borrower with selected intervention rights, including, inter alia: upon 
the contractor’s or consultant’s failure to perform any of its obligations 
under the applicable contract, the ability to: (i) suspend or terminate the 
right of any contractor or consultant to receive or use the proceeds of the 
Loan; or (ii) obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Loan 
withdrawn as of then; and  
 
(d) 
the terms of reference of any consultancy work that may be required 
during Project implementation in relation with the preparation of 
additional environmental and/or social studies or mitigation measures, 
actions and policies under the EMF, the IPPF and the IRF or any advice 
associated therewith and to be financed out of the proceeds of this Loan 
shall duly incorporate all pertinent and current Bank’s operational 
safeguards requirements in each such respect.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause IDAAN to ensure that: (a) EPU submits annual Project 
work plans and budget to  MEF and the Bank for their respective review and 
approval ; and (b)  the implementation of the Project is subsequently carried out 
applying the views and recommendations of the Bank in that respect. 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
3. 
The Borrower shall, under each budget proposal to its legislature for the 
corresponding year during Project implementation, make adequate arrangements 
to assume, for that year, the counterpart portion of the costs related to the 
implementation of Part 2 of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan in the proportion set forth in Category 2 of the table in Section IV.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
E. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause IDAAN to, ensure that the Project is carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
F. 
Safeguards 
 
 
The Borrower shall and shall cause IDAAN to comply with the provisions of the 
EMF, IPPF and IRF, including through the carrying out of the specific plans 
derived from such frameworks, and ensure that same obligations are 
appropriately upheld and shared under any pertinent contract further entered into 
for purposes of the Project. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause IDAAN to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and to prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with 
the Bank and set forth in the OM.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five 
days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than March 31, 2016. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause IDAAN to maintain a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause IDAAN to prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, 
not later than forty five days after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
- 13 - 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause IDAAN to have the Project Financial Statements 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions.  Each audit of the Project Financial Statements shall cover the period 
of one fiscal year of IDAAN.  The audited Project Financial Statements for each 
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end 
of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant services.  All goods, works and Non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods, works and Non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding based on 
SBDs previously agreed with the Bank and subject to the following additional 
procedures which shall equally apply in respect of any procurement of goods, 
works and Non-consultant services carried out using NCB procedures mentioned 
in the next paragraph 2(a) below: 
 
 
(a) 
foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
 
- 14 - 
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB), subject to the additional procedures 
set forth in Section III B. 1 above. 
(b) Shopping, subject to the additional procedures set forth in Section III B. 1 
above and the additional requirement that a minimum of three quotations be 
obtained as a condition to award the contract. 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-Based Selection.  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget. 
(c) Least Cost Selection. 
(d) Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
3. 
Special provisions. With respect to each method set forth in this Section III.C, 
the procurement of consultants’ services shall be carried out subject to the 
following additional provisions, namely, that foreign consultants shall not be 
required to:  
 
(a) 
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal 
capacity or tax status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and  
 
(b)   
submit their proposals in person. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions  
 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be 
subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank.  
 
2. 
 In case of conflict between the provisions of the Procurement Plan and the 
provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.   
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures.  
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 16 - 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of  Taxes)  
 
(1) expenditures under Part 1 of 
 
the Project for: 
 
 
(a)  Goods, works and Non- 
 
 
consultant services 
 
 
(b)  Consultant services 
 
 
 
 
24,300,000 
 
 
 
2,700,000 
 
 
 
100% 
 
 
100% 
(2) expenditures under Part 2 of 
 
the Project for: 
 
 
(a)  Goods, works and Non- 
 
 
consultant services  
 
 
(b) Consultant services  
 
 
(c) Training and Operating  
 
 
costs 
 
 
 
 
8,700,000 
 
 
 
1,100,000 
 
 
200,000 
 
 
 
50% 
 
 
50% 
 
50% 
(3) expenditures under Part 3 of 
 
the Project for: 
 
 
(a) Goods, works and Non- 
 
 
consultant services  
 
 
(b) Consultant services  
 
 
(c) Training and Operating  
 
 
costs 
 
 
 
 
1,300,000 
 
 
 
900,000 
 
 
800,000 
 
 
 
100% 
 
 
100% 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
40,000,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; and 
 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 (four 
million Dollars) may be made for payments made prior to this date but 
on or after March 01, 2010 for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2015. 
 
- 18 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each July15 and January 15 
 
Beginning July 15, 2015  
 
through January 15, 2028  
 
3.71% 
On July 15, 2028  
3.54 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
 
- 19 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
- 20 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Coordinator” means the person selected under the Project to carry out the 
coordination of activities to be financed under this Loan, as referred to in Section 
I.A.2 (a) (iii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Framework” and “EMF” mean the framework of 
the Borrower for the management of social and environmental aspects of the 
Project dated March 03, 2010 and disclosed to the public on even date therewith, 
as may be amended from time to time only with the express prior consent of the 
Bank. 
 
6. 
“EPU” means the External Project Unit, the Borrower’s unit established to 
manage externally funded Projects, as referred to in Section I.A.2 (a) of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
8. 
“IDAAN” means Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales, the 
National Water and Sewer Agency of the Borrower, established by Law No. 2 of 
January 7, 1997 as amended to date, including through Law No. 77 of December 
28, 2001 which reorganized it as an autonomous public entity with legal 
personality and patrimony.  
 
9. 
“IDAAN’s Legislation” means for purposes of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
Law No. 77 of the Borrower dated December 28, 2001. 
 
- 21 - 
10. 
“Inter-institutional Committee” means the committee referred to in section I.A.3 
(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“IPPF” means Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, the document of the 
Borrower dated February 26, 2010 and disclosed to the public on even date 
therewith, which sets forth actions and measures to ensure that the collective 
identity of indigenous peoples does not constitute a barrier for accessing project 
benefits or contribute to any potential adverse impacts caused by the Project, as 
referred to in Section I.B.1.of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and as may be 
amended from time to time only with the express prior consent of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“IRF” means Involuntary Resettlement Framework, the process framework of the 
Borrower dated March 16, 2010  and disclosed to the public on even date 
therewith for  the compensation and relocation of persons potentially displaced 
on account of Project implementation, as may be amended from time to time only 
with the express prior consent of the Bank. 
 
13. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance of the Borrower. 
 
14. 
“Non-consultant services” means, in respect of Category 1, 2 and 3 in the table of 
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, services to be contracted for the 
carrying out of activities related to, inter alia, outreach and communication 
campaigns and the organization and carrying out of workshops not otherwise 
covered under Training. 
 
15. 
“Operating Costs” means in respect of Categories 2 and 3 in the table of Section 
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs and salaries 
of locally contracted employees.  
 
16. 
“Operational Manual” and “OM” mean a manual for Project implementation as 
referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated April 06, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
- 22 - 
19. 
“PMR” means the Borrower’s geographical subdivision of Panama Metropolitan 
Region, including therein specific low-income areas east of the Panamá Canal 
such as, inter alia, Alcalde Díaz and Chilibre in the districts of Panamá and San 
Miguelito, and including the city of Colón. 
 
20. 
“SBD” means Standard Bidding Document, a document agreed with the Bank to 
be used for procurement related activities under the Project, as referred to in 
Section I.C.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
21. 
“Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in section I.A.3 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
22. 
“Technical Advisor” means a firm of consultants specialized in WSS systems 
selected and appointed under the Project to provide technical guidance for the 
implementation of the Project, as referred to in Section I.A.2 (b). 
 
23. 
“Training” means in respect of Categories 2 and 3 in the table of Section IV.A.2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by non-consultant training facilitators, including therein workshops and 
study tours in foreign countries; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility rentals; and 
(iv) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution 
expenses not otherwise covered under said section. 
 
24. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to IDAAN. 
 
25. 
“WSS” means Water Supply and Sanitation. 
 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
- 23 - 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 
 
 
