CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7918-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Liaoning and Shandong 
Technical and Vocational Education and Training Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 9, 2010  
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
August 
9, 
2010, 
between 
PEOPLE’S  
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of forty million dollars ($40,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entities (Liaoning and 
Shandong, collectively) to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and their 
respective Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
3
4
ARTICLE IV – TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
5
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and relevance of technical 
education in eight schools in Liaoning and Shandong and produce lessons from this 
experience as a guide for future school reforms and policy development.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1: School-Based Reforms and Innovation 
 
(a) 
Carrying out of sub-projects by the Respective Selected Schools to: 
 
(i) 
Strengthen and institutionalize the linkage between schools and local 
industry including, providing goods and technical assistance for:  
(A)  establishment and strengthening of school-industry advisory bodies; 
(B) development 
of 
standard 
school 
and 
industry 
cooperation 
agreements, including agreements for training; (C) engagement of 
industry representatives in technical advisory committees to set 
competency standards, develop and adapt new curricula, validate testing 
and certification systems, and promote sharing of industry equipment and 
skilled personnel with schools; and (D) compilation of training resource 
information and marketing materials for schools.  
 
(ii) 
Improve the management of schools by building capacity for effective 
use of school resources and for producing learning outcomes responsive 
to a market economy including, providing training, study tours and 
technical assistance for: (A) the design and conduct of foreign and 
domestic study tours; and (B) provision of long-term and short-term 
training for school administrators and lead instructors who are 
responsible for Competency-Based Training (“CBT”).   
 
(iii) 
Develop and implement a flexible CBT curriculum with competency 
standards that are determined in accordance with industry demand to 
promote improvements in quality and relevance including, providing 
goods and technical assistance for the development of: (A) modular CBT 
curricula; and (B) instructional materials.   
 
(iv) 
Improve quality of student assessment and quality assurance by 
establishing a competency-based benchmark for measuring student and 
school performance including, providing goods, training,  and technical 
assistance for: (A) alignment of the student assessment system with the 
new CBT curricula, (B) development of instruments for reporting to the 
7
public 
about 
aggregate 
student 
performance 
on 
competency 
examinations as an indicator of school quality; and (C) carrying out of 
research on student achievement of competencies as a guide to improve 
instruction. 
 
(v) 
Improve instructional capacity and quality of training including, 
providing technical assistance and training of instructors through pre-
service and in-service measures to use competency-based curriculum and 
a learner-centered pedagogy.   
 
(b) 
Upgrading of facilities at the Respective Selected Schools based on market 
demand including, carrying out civil works and providing equipment and 
technical assistance to:  
 
(i) 
upgrade and expand teaching facilities and related infrastructure; and  
 
(ii) 
equip facilities to conform to the needs of the new modular CBT 
curricula.   
 
Part 2: Knowledge development, policy studies, and capacity building  
(a) 
Improving monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation through 
provision of  training, and technical assistance for: (i) design and implementation 
of quality assurance measures in monitoring and evaluating school-based reforms 
and innovations; (ii) development of a management information system, 
including development of a graduate tracking system; and (iii) carrying out 
policy studies on technical and vocational education. 
(b) 
Disseminating lessons acquired from Project implementation through provision 
of training, and technical assistance for: (i) preparation of media for 
dissemination about knowledge and good practices from the school-based 
reforms; (ii) preparation of an outreach plan during the first year of 
implementation by each province to disseminate lessons within the provinces; 
and (iii) carrying out of workshops to educate practitioners and policy makers on 
presentation and discussion of Project results. 
(c) 
Building capacity for Project management through provision of training, and 
technical assistance to the PMOs, Respective Selected Schools for, inter alia, 
management and coordination of construction, procurement, monitoring and 
evaluation, reporting, and other technical activities requiring coordination.  
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to Liaoning and Shandong the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the categories for each such Province as set 
forth in the table in Section IV of this Schedule under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available, including an amount equal to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and the amount 
of the Premium paid pursuant to Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement, shall 
be recovered over a period of thirty (30) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five (5) years.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and cause each of Liaoning and 
Shandong to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement respectively.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than March 15 and September 15 each year starting March 15, 2011. 
 
9
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank as part of 
the Project Report by not later than March 15 and September 15 each year, 
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the preceding 
calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
10
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of  
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
 
In addition, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive 
Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding 
of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with 
the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that 
are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. 
Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding 
documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders 
between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified 
in detail in the bidding documents. 
 
11
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the 
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there 
shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower, Liaoning or Shandong, as 
the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall 
not be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in 
the form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower, 
Liaoning, or Shandong, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose 
bid has been determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to 
the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated 
cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition 
of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as 
originally submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
 
12
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country 
may be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and 
works if they can establish that they: (A) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; 
and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency conducting 
the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
All bids shall not be rejected solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or 
rebidding shall not take place without the Bank’s prior 
written concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as 
provided under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or 
a free and open access website and shall identify the name 
and offered price of the winning bidder, as well as the 
duration and summary scope of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
Liaoning and Shandong shall have in place provisions for 
bidders to protest. 
 
(b) 
Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
13
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
Quality-based Selection 
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) 
Single-source Selection 
(d) 
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(e) 
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
14
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Liaoning 
 
(a) Goods and  works under  
Parts 1(b) and 2 of the Project 
(b)  Innovation  
Sub-project Financing under 
Part 1(a) of the Project and 
services and training under 
Parts 1(b) and 2 of the Project 
 
16,100,000 
 
3,850,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(2) Shandong  
 
(a) Goods and  works under  
Parts 1(b) and 2 of the Project 
 
(b)  Innovation Sub-project 
Financing under Part 1(a) of 
the Project and services and 
training under Parts 1(b)  
and 2 of the Project 
 
16,830,000 
 
3,120,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(3)  Front-end Fee 
100,000 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(4)  Premium for Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar 
0
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,000,000 
 
15
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2010, for 
Eligible Expenditures under categories (1) and (2). 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015.  
16
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15 
beginning November 15, 2015 through 
May 15, 2040 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
17
 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
18
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Environmental 
Management 
Framework” 
means 
the 
Environmental 
Management Framework dated October  2009, prepared by Liaoning Urban 
Construction and Renewal Project Office and referred to in Section I, paragraph 
C.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreements, which framework sets out the 
policies and procedures for environmental assessment and preparation of 
environmental mitigation plans in respect of activities under the Project, as well 
as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of 
said plans, as such framework may be revised from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Bank. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
6. 
“Innovation Sub-project” means, individually, a sub-project selected by the 
Project Implementing Entity and approved by the Bank in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Section IV of the Schedule to the Project Agreements, and 
comprising activities to be carried out under Part 1(a) of the Project by a 
Respective Selected School; and “Innovation Sub-projects” means, collectively, 
all such sub-projects. 
 
7. 
“Innovation Sub-project Financing” means the reasonable cost of: (a) goods, but 
excluding fixed assets; (b) technical assistance, workshops and training 
including, but not limited to rental of premises, the provision of related materials 
and honorarium paid to industry/sector experts; and (c)  incremental expenditures 
incurred by each of the Respective Selected Schools in the implementation of an 
Innovation Sub-project (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent 
the Innovation Sub-project), including, but not limited to, the reasonable cost of 
office consumables, communication, transportation, per diem, printing, 
19
 
translation, and interpretation, but excluding the salaries and salary supplements 
of staff of the Respective Selected Schools.  
 
8. 
“Liaoning” means the Borrower’s Province of Liaoning and any successor 
thereto. 
9. 
“Liaoning Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Liaoning of even date herewith relating to implementation of its Respective Parts 
of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Liaoning Project 
Agreement. 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plans” means, collectively, the Borrower’s procurement plans 
dated December 30, 2009 for Liaoning, and dated March 15, 2010 for Shandong, 
and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time 
in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Project Agreements” means the Liaoning Project Agreement and the Shandong 
Project Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Project Implementation Plans” and its abbreviation “PIP” mean, collectively: 
(a) the project implementation plan, including the Financial Management 
Manual, dated December 30, 2009 for Liaoning; and (b) the project 
implementation plan including the Financial Management Manual, dated 
December 30, 2009 for Shandong, both setting out the procedural basis for 
implementation of the Project and its monitoring and supervision. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entities” means, collectively, Liaoning and Shandong and 
“Project Implementing Entity” means, individually, any such Project 
Implementing Entities. 
 
15. 
“Project Steering Committees” and the acronym “PSC” mean the project steering 
committees established in Liaoning and Shandong respectively, and to be   
maintained pursuant to the provisions of Section I.A paragraph 1(a) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
16. 
“Project Management Office” and the acronym “PMO” mean any one of the 
project management offices established in Liaoning and Shandong, respectively, 
and to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of Section I.A paragraph 1(b) of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
20
 
17. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” mean in the case of Liaoning and Shandong, the 
activities described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement under the jurisdiction of 
their respective provinces.   
 
18. 
“Respective Selected Schools” means, with respect to: 
(a) 
Liaoning 
Province: 
Equipment 
Manufacture 
College, 
Liaoning 
Vocational College, Labor Economy College, Urban Construction 
School and any other schools selected by agreement among  Liaoning 
and the Bank; and  
(b) 
Shandong Province: Dezhou Technical and Vocational  College , Yantai 
Automotive Engineering College, Jining Technical and Vocational 
College, Weihai Vocational College and any other schools selected by 
agreement between Shandong and the Bank; 
and any successors to the foregoing learning institutions; and “Respective 
Selected School” means, individually, any of such Respective Selected Schools. 
19. 
“Shandong” means the Borrower’s Province of Shandong and any successor 
thereto. 
20. 
“Shandong Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Shandong of even date herewith relating to implementation of its Respective 
Parts of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Shandong Project 
Agreement. 
21. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means any one of the agreements referred to in  
Section I D.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
21
 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.”
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
