CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7940-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Power Transmission Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 18, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
November 
18, 
2010, 
between 
REPUBLIC                        
OF 
INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”) 
and 
INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and twenty-five million 
Dollars ($225,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or un-withdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
3
(b) 
The Project Implementation Plan and the Procurement Manual referred 
to in Section I.C.1 (a) (i) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement have 
been adopted by the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Directorate General of Debt Management 
Ministry of Finance 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
 
Cable:  
 
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY 45799  
DJMLN-IA 
 
62-21-381-2859 
Jakarta  
 
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
4
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Chris Hoban 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to meet growing electricity 
demand and improve the reliability of electricity supply in Java and South-Central 
Sumatra by strengthening the power transmission system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Java-Bali Transmission Substation Expansion and Construction
(a) 
Expansion of four (4) existing 500 / 150 kV and twenty (20) to twenty-
five (25) existing 150 / 20 kV substations through the installation of new 
transformers and associated equipment. 
(b)  
Construction of one (1) new 150 / 20 kV substation, including 
installation of two (2) new 60 MVA transformers and associated 
equipment. 
2. 
South-Central Sumatra Transmission Substation Upgrading and Expansion
(a)  
Upgrading of five (5) existing 150 kV substations through the installation 
of new transformers and associated equipment. 
(b)  
Expansion of ten (10) to fifteen (15) existing 150 / 20 kV substations 
through the installation of new transformers and associated equipment. 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity 
(“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”), in accordance with the regulations of the 
Borrower in this regard and under terms and conditions agreed by the Borrower 
and the Bank, and which shall include the following obligations of the Project 
Implementing Entity: 
(a) 
(i) payment to the Borrower of a front-end fee in an amount equal to the 
Front-end Fee specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement; 
(ii) repayment to the Borrower of the proceeds of the Loan over a period 
consistent with Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (iii) payment to the 
Borrower of interest on the Withdrawn Loan Balance at a variable rate 
per annum equal to the rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to   
Section 2.04 of this Agreement, subject to any request that the Borrower 
may   make pursuant to Section 2.07 of this Agreement, plus a maximum 
of one half of one percent (0.5%); 
(b) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of 
the 
Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines 
and 
the 
Governance 
and 
Accountability Framework; 
(c) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Implementation Plan and the Procurement Manual, and 
without any right or authority, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, to assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be 
assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any 
provision thereof; 
(d) 
to ensure that procurement of the goods, works, and services required for 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
of this Schedule, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan; and 
7
(e) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Environmental Management and the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Action Plans and any site-specific addenda to the 
Environmental Management Plan, and without any right or authority, 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, to assign, 
amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, 
abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or 
permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or 
any provision thereof. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Governance and 
Accountability Framework. 
C. 
Plan and Manual 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Plan and the Procurement Manual; and (ii) except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit 
to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any 
provision thereof. 
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of such Plan or Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail. 
Section II. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
8
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
International Competitive Bidding. Goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least-Cost Selection 
9
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-Source Selection 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance one hundred percent (100%) 
(exclusive of Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures, consisting of goods, works, and 
consultants’ services for the Project. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
 
(a) 
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
10 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
September 1, 2019 
2.17 
March 1, 2020 
2.22 
September 1, 2020 
2.28 
March 1, 2021 
2.34 
September 1, 2021 
2.40 
March 1, 2022 
2.46 
September 1, 2022 
2.52 
March 1, 2023 
2.58 
September 1, 2023 
2.64 
March 1, 2024 
2.71 
September 1, 2024 
2.78 
March 1, 2025 
2.85 
September 1, 2025 
2.92 
March 1, 2026 
2.99 
September 1, 2026 
3.07 
March 1, 2027 
3.14 
September 1, 2027 
3.22 
March 1, 2028 
3.30 
September 1, 2028 
3.38 
March 1, 2029 
3.47 
September 1, 2029 
3.56 
March 1, 2030 
3.65 
September 1, 2030 
3.74 
March 1, 2031 
3.83 
September 1, 2031 
3.93 
11 
March 1, 2032 
4.02 
September 1, 2032 
4.12 
March 1, 2033 
4.23 
September 1, 2033 
4.33 
March 1, 2034 
4.44 
September 1, 2034 
4.71 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
12 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
13 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
3. 
“Department of Finance” means the department of the Project Implementing 
Entity (as hereinafter defined) responsible for finance. 
 
4. 
“Department of Planning and Technology” means the department of the Project 
Implementing Entity (as hereinafter defined) responsible for planning and 
technology. 
 
5. 
“Department of Strategic Procurement” means the department of the Project 
Implementing Entity (as hereinafter defined) responsible for procurement. 
 
6. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of implementation of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such persons. 
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s 
plan, dated February 12, 2010 and agreed with the Bank, setting out mitigation, 
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity building 
through training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of activities to 
be implemented under the Project, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable 
levels, or enhance positive impacts, as the same may be modified from time to 
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any 
schedules or annexes to such plan. 
 
8. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 as amended 
14 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Governance and Accountability Framework” means the Project Implementing 
Entity (as hereinafter defined)’s framework, part of the Project Implementation 
Plan (as hereinafter defined), setting out measures to reinforce Project 
governance, enhance transparency of Project activities, increase public 
accountability, and reduce opportunities for corruption, fraud, or collusion, as the 
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such framework. 
 
10. 
“GWh” means gigawatt hour. 
 
11. 
“Java” or “Java-Bali” means the provinces of Bali, Banten, Central Java, East 
Java, Jakarta, West Java, and Yogyakarta in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
12. 
“kV” means kilovolt. 
 
13. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan” means the Project 
Implementing Entity’s plan, dated February 3, 2010 and agreed with the Bank, 
setting out the arrangements pertaining to land acquisition and the resettlement, 
rehabilitation, and compensation of Displaced Persons under the Project, as the 
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the 
Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes to such plan. 
 
14. 
“MVA” means megavolt ampere. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Committee” means the Project Implementing Entity (as 
hereinafter defined)’s entity referred to in Section I.A.6 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Manual” means the Project Implementing Entity (as hereinafter 
defined)’s manual referred to in Section I.C.1 (a) (ii) (B) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or annexes 
to such manual. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity (as hereinafter 
defined)’s procurement plan for the Project, dated May 26, 2010, and referred to 
in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
15 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity (as 
hereinafter defined)’s plan referred to in Section I.C.1 (a) (i) (A) of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules or 
annexes to such plan. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara. 
 
21. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Borrower's Law No. 19 
of 1960, Law No. 9 of 1969, Government Regulation No. 3 of 1983, Government 
Regulation No. 28 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 10 of 1989, and 
Government Regulation No. 23 of 1994, and includes any other laws and 
regulations governing the organization, reorganization, restructuring, and 
operations of the Project Implementing Entity, as any of them may be amended 
or supplemented from time to time. 
 
22. 
“Project Management Unit” means the Project Implementing Entity’s entity, 
under the Department of Planning and Technology, established and operating 
pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity’s Decree No. 214.K/DIR/2010 of 
April 28, 2010, and whose responsibilities under the Project are set out in 
Section I.A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
23. 
“Regional Project Office” means one (1) of the Project Implementing Entity’s 
regional-level offices, established and operating pursuant to the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Decree Nos. 075.K/DIR/2008 of February 29, 2008 and 
031.K/DIR/2006 of February 23, 2006, responsible for regional-level technical 
supervision of the Project Implementing Entity’s activities. 
 
24. 
“South-Central Sumatra” means the provinces of Bengkulu, Jambi, Lampung, 
Riau, South Sumatra, and West Sumatra in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
25. 
“Subproject” means one (1) or more contract packages under the Project, 
grouped together for procurement purposes. 
 
26. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 1.A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
16 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining un-withdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association; and / or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the 
Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity has engaged 
in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
17 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section III. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows: 
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5 (a), and a new Section 5 (b) is added to 
read as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with the Bank’s prevailing sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn 13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual, or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period 
of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
18 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual, or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive, or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier, or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank-financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross-debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive, or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government-owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8 (b) of the Procurement 
Guidelines or participate under paragraph 1.11 (c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board set forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
