 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7811-SV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
(Income Support and Employability Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated July 19, 2010
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7811-SV 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated July 19, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars 
(US$50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15th and August 15th in each year. 
 
- 2 - 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal to five million Dollars  ($5,000,000) shall be converted from the 
initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in 
accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, under the overall coordination of STP, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out: (i) 
through MTPS, with the assistance of FISDL, Part B of the Project; and (ii) 
through STP, Part C of the Project; and (b) cause FISDL, with the assistance of 
Eligible Municipalities, to carry out: (i) Parts A.1, A.3, and A.4 of the Project; 
and (ii) Part A.2 with the participation of INSAFORP, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
- 3 - 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
FISDL shall have failed to comply with any of its pertinent obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement.  
 
(b) 
INSAFORP shall have failed to comply with any of its pertinent 
obligations under the INSAFORP Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The FISDL Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Borrower and/or FISDL to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Implementation Agreement and/or this Agreement.   
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank has been furnished to the Bank that the conditions specified below have 
been satisfied: 
 
(a) 
the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and FISDL; and 
 
(b) 
the INSAFORP Agreement has been executed on behalf of FISDL and 
INSAFORP. 
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing the following 
matters:   
 
(a) 
the Implementation Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower 
and FISDL and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FISDL in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
the INSAFORP Agreement has been duly executed by FISDL and 
INSAFORP and is legally binding upon FISDL and INSAFORP in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 24, 2011.  
 
- 4 - 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
Boulevard de los Héroes 1231 
San Salvador, El Salvador 
 
Facsimile: (503) 2225 – 7491; (503) 2244-6419 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
AGREED at San Salvador, Republic of El Salvador, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Carlos Enrique Cáceres Chávez 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Robert B. Zoellick 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Witnessed by: 
 
/s/ Mr. Mauricio Funes Cartagena 
President of the Republic of El Salvador
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide temporary income support to the 
urban vulnerable poor; (b) improve the coverage of labor intermediation and training 
services to the urban vulnerable poor; and (c) improve the institutional capacity of the 
Borrower to develop an integrated social protection system. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Support to the Design and Implementation of the Temporary Income 
Support Program 
 
1. 
Provision of: (a) PATI Grants to PATI Participants; and (b) Management 
Expenses to Eligible Municipalities. 
 
2. 
Provision of training to PATI Participants, including, inter alia: (a) the 
assessment of training needs; (b) the design of appropriate training components 
for the PATI Subprojects; (c) the delivery of the Training Activities; and (d) the 
monitoring of PATI Participants’ assistance to the Training Activities. 
 
3. 
Strengthening of FISDL’s capacity to manage the PATI Program by, inter alia, 
the evaluation and redesign of FISDL’s current M&E systems.  
 
4. 
Strengthening of Eligible Municipalities’ institutional and technical capacity to 
design and implement PATI Subprojects through, inter alia, the provision of 
technical assistance, equipment and training to Eligible Municipalities’ personnel 
to identify, prepare and submit for approval PATI Subprojects. 
 
Part B: Strengthening the Intermediation, Information, and Occupational Training 
Systems 
 
1. 
Strengthening of the RNE by expanding the geographical coverage of the Bolsas 
de Empleo Program through, inter alia, the provision of specialized technical 
assistance, training, equipment and software for MTPS. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance, necessary goods, equipment and training to 
strengthen MTPS’ capacity to compile and systematize statistical labor market 
information, through the creation of a national labor market observatory. 
 
3. 
Development of a national strategy for occupational training through, inter alia, 
the provision of technical assistance, equipment and software for MTPS, and 
training for MTPS, MINED, and INSAFORP’s personnel on employment 
training for vulnerable groups.   
- 7 - 
Part C: Support to the Design and Development of the Universal Social Protection 
System 
 
1. 
Strengthening of the STP’s institutional capacity to implement SPSU through, 
inter alia, the following activities: (a) the preparation of an assessment of STP’s 
institutional capacity to implement the SPSU; (b) the development of the 
regulatory framework for the institutional coordination of SPSU; (c) the carrying 
out of training activities for STP’s personnel; and (d) the development of a 
communications strategy for the SPSU and its components. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of equipment for the design 
and implementation of key tools for the development of social protection 
policies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.    Implementation 
 
A. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
(a)     For purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower 
shall enter into an agreement (the Implementation Agreement) with 
FISDL under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through STP, shall maintain, throughout the execution of the 
Project, key staff in numbers and with experience and functions satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the effective coordination of the Project. 
 
B. 
Project Operational Manual 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project, and cause the Project to be carried out, 
in accordance with the provisions of a manual (the Project Operational Manual), 
which shall include, inter alia: (a) the criteria for identification, registration and 
selection of PATI Participants; (b) the requirements to be fulfilled by PATI 
Participants as conditions for the provision of PATI Grants; (c) the mechanisms 
for verification of compliance with PATI Grants conditions; (d) the detailed 
procedures for the selection and implementation of PATI Subprojects; (e) the 
description of the mechanism for the provision of PATI Grants; (f) the format of: 
(A) the unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) the Financial Statements; (g) the terms of 
reference for carrying out the audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; (h) the Project indicators; and (i) the Project disbursement and 
procurement procedures. 
 
2. 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not, and shall cause FISDL not to, abrogate, amend, suspend, 
waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Project Operational Manual or any 
provision thereof. 
- 9 - 
3. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operational Manual, the 
Implementation Agreement, the PATI Grant Agreements, the PATI Subproject 
Agreements, the INSAFORP Agreement and this Agreement, the provisions of 
this Agreement will prevail.  
 
C. 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
  
1. 
The Borrower, through STP and MTPS as the case may be, shall ensure, and 
shall cause FISDL to ensure, that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
 
D. 
Safeguards 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure, and cause FISDL to ensure, that any activities under 
the Project do not involve any Resettlement, the use of pesticides or other 
agricultural chemicals listed in the Project Operational Manual, and/or degrade 
natural habitats, or cause deforestation. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower, through STP and MTPS, shall, and shall cause FISDL to, monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one calendar semester. The Borrower, through STP, shall furnish to 
the Bank consolidated Project Reports (including the Project Reports prepared by 
each responsible agency), not later than forty five days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five days after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, through STP, and shall cause FISDL to maintain, a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions.  
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through STP, and shall cause FISDL to, prepare as part of the Project Report, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering a calendar semester, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower, through STP, shall 
- 10 - 
furnish to the Bank consolidated interim reports (including the interim financial 
reports prepared by FISDL for Parts A and B of the Project, and the interim 
financial reports prepared by STP for Part C of the Project), not later than forty 
five days after the end of each semester. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through STP, shall, and shall cause FISDL to, have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Non-consultant Services. All goods and non-consultant services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services. The 
following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consultant services. 
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Least-Cost Based Selection 
(b) Quality-Based Selection 
(c) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth 
in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual 
Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
- 12 - 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) PATI Grants and 
 
Management Expenses 
 
under Part A.1 of the 
 
Project 
 
 
26,500,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, Non-Consultant 
 
Services, consultants’ 
 
services, Operating 
 
Costs, Training, and 
 
PATI Training under 
 
Part A of the Project 
 
          10,700,000 
100% 
(3) Goods, Non-Consultant 
 
Services, consultants’ 
 
services, Operating 
 
Costs, and Training 
 
under Part B of the 
 
Project 
 
 
  10,200,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, Non-Consultant 
 
services, consultants’ 
 
services, Operating 
 
Costs, and Training 
 
under Part C of the 
 
Project 
 
           2,300,000 
100% 
(5) Front-end Fee 
125,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
- 13 - 
 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
 
(6) Unallocated 
 
175,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
50,000,000 
 
 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “Non-consultant Services” means logistical service expenses for 
capacity building events, printing of training materials and media campaigns, as 
well as other services which are not rendered by consultants, obtained at 
reasonable cost on account of Project implementation and which are not covered 
in the definitions of Training and Operating Costs; 
 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem  and supervision costs of locally 
contracted employees;  
 
(c) 
the term “PATI Training” means the reasonable unitary cost of training activities, 
as set forth in the Project Operational Manual, delivered by INSAFORP under 
Part A.2 of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
the term “Training” means reasonable: (a) travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility 
rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made within one year prior to this 
date but on or after November 15th, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
(b) 
for payments made to finance any expenditure under Category (1), unless 
FISDL has contracted with a financial institution, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank, to be in charge of executing PATI 
Grants’ payments. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014, or any later date as the Bank may agree, 
and notify to the Borrower in writing. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings 
 
A. 
Other Audits 
 
1.       Pursuant to terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank, including inter 
alia, the scope of the audits to be conducted and furnished to the Bank, and as 
further specified in the Project Operational Manual, the Borrower shall cause 
FISDL to carry out annual operational audits integrating the results of the 
implementation of Part A.1 of the Project and setting out the measures to ensure 
the adequate and efficient carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. Said annual operational audits shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the period 
covered by such audit.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2015  
 
through August 15, 2039 
 
 
2% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
 
 
- 16 - 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
- 17 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Terms and Conditions of the Implementation Agreement 
 
The Implementation Agreement shall contain, inter alia, the following 
provisions: 
 
A. 
the obligation of the Borrower: 
 
(a) 
through MoF, to promptly disburse to FISDL proceeds of the Loan to 
finance the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency; 
 
(b) 
with respect to the implementation of Part B of the Project, through 
MTPS, to: (i) carry out the activities under said part of the Project; (ii) to 
take or permit to be taken all actions to enable FISDL to comply with its 
obligations referred to in Section C (e) of this Schedule. 
 
(c) 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and 
 
(d) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof unless 
previously agreed by the Bank; 
 
B. 
the right of the Borrower to take remedial actions against FISDL in case FISDL 
shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the Implementation 
Agreement (which actions shall previously be agreed with the Bank);  
 
C. 
the obligation of FISDL: 
 
(a) 
(i) to carry out Parts A.1, A.3, and A.4 of the Project, and Part A.2 of the 
Project with the participation of INSAFORP (in accordance with the 
INSAFORP Agreement); and (ii) assist MTPS to carry out Part B of the 
Project, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and 
those set forth in the Project Operational Manual;  
 
(b) 
with respect to the implementation of Part A of the Project, to: (i) enter 
into framework agreements with each Eligible Municipality, under terms 
and conditions set forth in the Project Operational Manual; (ii) assist the 
Eligible Municipalities to prepare PATI Subprojects; (iii) evaluate and 
approve PATI Subproject; (iv) make available, on a grant basis, part of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) to the corresponding 
PATI Participant under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, 
according to the procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual, 
- 18 - 
including, inter alia, the PATI Participant’s obligation to sign the PATI 
Grant Agreement, and to participate in the implementation of the 
relevant PATI Subproject, and the obligation of FISDL to transfer a 
PATI Grant to said PATI Participant; and (v) supervise PATI Subproject 
implementation; 
 
(c) 
prior to providing any PATI Grant in the jurisdiction of an Eligible 
Municipality, to enter into an agreement with each Eligible Municipality 
(the PATI Subproject Agreement), under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the parties’ obligations with respect 
to Part A of the Project including, inter alia:  
 
(i) 
FISDL’s obligation to: (I) promptly disburse the proceeds of the 
Loan for the implementation of the PATI Subproject to: (A) each 
Eligible Municipality to finance Management Expenses, and (B) 
each PATI Participant to finance a PATI Grant, in accordance 
with the mechanisms set forth in the Project Operational Manual; 
(II) to select the PATI Participants for each PATI Subproject, in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual; and (III) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
amend, waive or fail to enforce the PATI Subproject Agreement 
or provisions thereof; 
 
(ii) 
FISDL’s right to take remedial actions against the Eligible 
Municipality in case it shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the PATI Subproject Agreement (which 
actions shall previously be agreed with the Bank); 
 
(iii) 
the Eligible Municipality’s obligation to: (I) provide funds to 
implement the PATI Subproject, in particular to finance the 
Community Activity; (II) confirm the selection of PATI 
Participants made by FISDL, in accordance with the mechanisms 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual; (III) monitor PATI 
Participants’ attendance to the Community Activities; (IV) 
immediately after the corresponding PATI Subproject has been 
approved, carry out, or cause to be carried out, an 
environmental/social screening and/or an environmental/social 
assessment (as the case may be) of the pertinent PATI 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual; (V) if the environmental/social 
screening and/or environmental/social assessment mentioned in 
(IV) herein has identified potential negative environmental/social 
impacts (in which case the results of the environmental/social 
screening/assessment shall include, inter alia, the pertinent 
mitigatory measures and their implementation timing), carry out 
- 19 - 
said mitigatory measures in a manner and on terms acceptable to 
the Bank; (VI) ensure that PATI Subprojects do not involve any 
Resettlement, the use of pesticides or other agricultural 
chemicals listed in the Project Operational Manual, do not 
degrade natural habitats, and do not cause deforestation; (VII) 
ensure that the activities under Part A of the Project are carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; (VIII) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
amend, waive or fail to enforce the PATI Subproject Agreement 
or provisions thereof; and (IX) to take or permit to be taken all 
action to enable FISDL to comply with its obligations referred to 
in this Agreement and in the PATI Subproject Agreement; 
 
(d) 
to enter into an agreement with INSAFORP (the INSAFORP 
Agreement) for the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall 
include, inter alia, the following provisions:  
 
(i) 
FISDL’s obligation to: (I) promptly disburse to INSAFORP the 
proceeds of the Loan to finance the carrying out of Part A.2 of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency; (II) to ensure that 
the activities under Part A.2 of the Project are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; and (III) not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, 
repeal, waive or fail to enforce the INSAFORP Agreement or 
any provision thereof unless previously agreed by the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
FISDL’s right to take remedial actions against INSAFORP in 
case it shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations 
under the INSAFORP Agreement (which actions shall 
previously be agreed with the Bank); 
 
(iii) 
INSAFORP’s obligation: (I) to carry out the Project activities 
referred to in Part A.2 of the Project in coordination with the 
Eligible Municipalities and with the assistance of FISDL; (II) to 
comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 
(III) not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or 
fail to enforce the INSAFORP Agreement or any provision 
thereof unless previously agreed by the Bank; and (IV) to take or 
permit to be taken all actions to enable FISDL to comply with its 
obligations referred to in this Agreement and in the INSAFORP 
Agreement; 
 
(e) 
with respect to the implementation of Part B of the Project, to: (i) 
conduct procurement processes on behalf of MTPS; (ii) carry out 
- 20 - 
financial management obligations pursuant to Section II.B of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement; and (iii) assist MTPS to comply with its obligations 
under Section A (b) of this Schedule with respect to procurement and 
financial management matters;  
 
(f) 
to comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project; 
 
(g) 
to ensure that any activity under Parts A and B of the Project do not 
involve any Resettlement, the use of pesticides or other agricultural 
chemicals listed in the Project Operational Manual, and/or degrade 
natural habitats, or cause deforestation. 
 
(h) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof unless 
previously agreed by the Bank; and  
 
(i) 
to take or permit to be taken all actions to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligations referred to in this Agreement and in the 
Implementation Agreement.  
 
- 21 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1.       “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Bolsas de Empleo Program” means the Borrower’s system of local employment 
offices, formerly known as Oficinas Locales de Gestión de Empleo, located in 
some of the Borrower’s geographical departments, which provides information 
on labor supply and demand.  
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Community Activity” means an activity proposed by an Eligible Municipality as 
part of a PATI Subproject to be carried out with the participation of the PATI 
Participants, consisting of, inter alia: (a) community services, including activities 
of care-givers for the elderly, children, or disabled, as well as support to the 
provision of health and education services; (b) municipal services, including 
maintenance of buildings and cleaning of public spaces; or (c) small 
infrastructure projects, including rehabilitation, expansion of social infrastructure 
such as health centers, schools, and community centers, all such activities being 
eligible for financing under the PATI Program in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Operational Manual. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Eligible Municipality” means a municipality which meets the selection criteria 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual.  
 
7. 
“FISDL” means Fondo de Inversion Social para el Desarrollo Local de El 
Salvador, the Borrower’s Social Investment Fund for Local Development.  
 
8. 
“FISDL Legislation” means Ley de Creación de Inversion Social, the Borrower’s 
Legislative Decree No. 610 dated October 31, 1990 (duly published in the 
Borrower’s official Gazette on November 16, 1990), as amended by the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 826 dated September 19, 1996 (duly published in the 
Borrower’s official Gazette on October 2, 1996). 
 
 
- 22 - 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008 and as further modified pursuant to Section II of this 
Appendix).  
 
10. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Loan available to FISDL for the implementation of Parts A 
and B of the Project. 
 
11. 
“INSAFORP” means Instituto Salvadoreño de Formación Profesional, the 
Borrower’s Institute of Professional Training. 
 
12. 
“INSAFORP Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section C (d) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, pursuant to which FISDL shall make part of the 
proceeds of the Loan available to INSAFORP for the implementation of Part A.2 
of the Project. 
 
13. 
“Management Expenses” means the reasonable administrative costs incurred by 
an Eligible Municipality to implement a PATI Subproject, expressed as a fixed 
amount set forth in the Project Operational Manual. 
 
14. 
“MINED” means Ministerio de Educación, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education. 
 
15. 
“MTPS” means Ministerio de Trabajo y Prevision Social, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Labor. 
 
16. 
“M&E” means monitoring and evaluation.  
 
17. 
“PATI Grant” means an income transfer payment to a PATI Participant for a 
maximum period of six months, under terms and conditions set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual. 
 
18. 
“PATI Grant Agreement” means the agreement signed by a PATI Participant to 
join the PATI Program, and assuming the obligation to participate in the PATI 
Subproject in exchange for the PATI Grant. 
 
19. 
“PATI Participant” means an individual who meets the selection criteria set forth 
in the Project Operational Manual, who has been selected through a public and 
transparent mechanism, under terms and conditions set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual, to benefit from a PATI Grant.  
 
 
- 23 - 
20. 
“PATI Program” means Programa de Apoyo Temporal al Ingreso (PATI), a 
component of the Borrower’s program Comunidades Solidarias as set forth in the 
operational manual for the program (Guía Operativa PATI) dated September 17, 
2009, with the goal of providing income support and training to poor and 
vulnerable urban individuals through temporary involvement in community 
activities or small projects.  
 
21. 
“PATI Subproject” means a Community Activity and its corresponding Training 
Activity as proposed by an Eligible Municipality. 
 
22. 
“PATI Subproject Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section C (c) 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, pursuant to which FISDL shall make part of the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the relevant PATI Participants and to the 
relevant Eligible Municipality for the implementation of Parts A.1 (a) and A.1 (b) 
of the Project, respectively. 
 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
24. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan prepared by FISDL for Parts A 
and B of the Project and the procurement plan prepared by STP for Part C of the 
Project, dated October 18, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs.  
 
25. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual dated October 20, 2009, 
satisfactory to the Bank, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
26. 
“Resettlement” means  the impact of: (a) an involuntary taking of land under the 
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive 
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently; or (b) an involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas (including reserves) which causes an adverse impact on 
the livelihoods of the displaced persons.  
 
27. 
“RNE” means Red Nacional de Empleo, the Borrower’s MTPS National 
Employment Network.  
- 24 - 
28. 
“SPSU” means Sistema de Protección Social Universal, the Borrower’s 
Universal Social Protection System. 
 
29. 
“STP” means Secretaria Técnica de la Presidencia, the Borrower’s Technical 
Secretariat of the Presidency. 
 
30. 
“Training Activities” means the training activities delivered through a PATI 
Subproject, provided to PATI Participants to enhance their employability after 
they leave the PATI Program.  
 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
- 25 - 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 
 
 
 
