 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7976-PE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated December 21, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN NUMBER 7976-PE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 21, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
PERU (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s 
Director of Public Indebtedness, or any person designated in writing, is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of this Section and 
Article II of the General Conditions.  
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one half of one 
percent (0.50%). The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
If, at the Borrower’s request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may 
agree, the Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each 
extension of the Closing Date shall be at the rate of one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%).  If the Borrower elects to capitalize the fee from the Loan, the Bank 
 
 
- 2 - 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself such amounts required to pay such fee.  If the Borrower elects to pay the 
fee from its own resources, the Borrower shall pay such fee not later than sixty 
days after the date of the notice given by the Bank to the Borrower confirming 
the extension of the Closing Date. 
 
2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, at the time of requesting a Withdrawal, also request 
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity 
of such Withdrawal does not exceed 18 years from the Withdrawal Date 
and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from 
the Withdrawal Date (or such other average maturity and/or final 
maturity as may be generally applicable to loans made by the Bank to the 
Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) such repayment 
provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to 
the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Rate; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
 
 
- 3 - 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.09. 
At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank, 
refund any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such 
amount to the Loan Account for further withdrawals.  Upon such refund, the 
repayment schedule shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of the General Conditions regarding 
Cooperation and Consultation (Originally Section 5.10 and renumbered as 5.08 
pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement), the 
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the 
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably 
request. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Economy and Finance, declares its 
commitment to the Program, and through the Implementing Agencies, to its 
implementation.  To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that 
 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out 
 
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
 
framework. 
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on June 11, 2012. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
 
Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the 
 
Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, represent the 
 
Borrower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are considered of an 
 
administrative and non-financial nature.  The signing by such Director of an 
 
amendment shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such 
 
amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú. 
 
Facsimile: 
(511) 626-9921 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
 
AGREED at Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ismael Benavides Ferreyros 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
- 6 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program 
 
A. 
The actions taken by the Borrower to enhance its capacity to implement a 
disaster risk management program for adverse natural events consist of the 
following:  
 
(i) 
the Borrower, through MEF, has designed and adopted a budgetary 
strategic program on disaster vulnerability reduction and emergency 
response under a results-based budgeting framework, as evidenced by 
Decreto de Urgencia No. 024-2010 of March 31, 2010. 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through MINSA, has adopted a national policy for 
ensuring safe hospitals in case of  disasters, as evidenced by Decreto 
Supremo No. 009-2010-SA of April 24, 2010. 
 
(iii) 
the Borrower, through SUNASS, has issued regulations concerning the 
quality of the provision of sanitation services, including measures to be 
adopted in emergency situations, as evidenced by Resolución del 
Consejo Directivo No. 011-2007-SUNASS-CD of February 2, 2007. 
 
(iv) 
The Borrower, through its Parliament, has enacted the public sector 
borrowing law (Ley General del Sistema de Endeudamiento), including a 
special chapter on the attention to disasters and emergency situations, 
allowing MEF to start building the Borrower’s financial protection 
mechanism against disaster, as evidenced by Law 29290 of December 
10, 2008. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
 
 
 Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
 
Single Tranche 
 
100,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT  
100,000,000 
 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  If the Closing 
Date is extended pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the Borrower 
elects to finance from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received 
payment in full of such fee. 
 
E. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.   
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied, based 
on evidence satisfactory to it, that a national State of Emergency (Estado de 
Emergencia) exists in the Borrower’s territory as a result of a natural disaster 
which has been declared by the Borrower, through a Decreto Supremo 
(Presidential Decree), all in accordance with the Borrower’s legislation. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of 
a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a 
review of the Borrower’s progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the 
Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless 
and until the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange 
of views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program. 
 
F. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the 
Borrower’s public accounting and budgeting regulations. 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
G. 
Audit.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the account designated by the Borrower pursuant to Section F.1 of 
this Section II audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank. The appointment conditions of said auditors shall be mutually 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case no later than six 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account and 
its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
H. 
Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
I. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 9, 2013 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
April 15, 2022 
44.44% 
October 15, 2022 
37.04% 
April 15, 2023 
18.52% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
 
 
- 10 - 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“Executing Agencies” means those agencies of the Borrower that, once a State of 
Emergency is declared, shall participate in the recovery and reconstruction 
activities deriving from a catastrophic event in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“MEF” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s ministry of 
economy and finance. 
 
5. 
“MINSA” means Ministerio de Salud, the Borrower’s ministry of health. 
 
6. 
“MVCS” means Ministerio de Vivienda, Construcción y Saneamiento, the 
Borrower’s ministry of housing, construction and sanitation. 
 
7. 
“Nuevos Soles” or “NS” means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
enhance the Borrower's capacity to implement a disaster risk management 
program for adverse natural events and set forth or referred to in the letter dated 
October 14, 2010, from the Borrower to the Bank, declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during its execution.  
 
9. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“State of Emergency” means a declaration by the Borrower, through a 
Presidential Decree, of a state of emergency (Estado de Emergencia) due to a 
 
 
- 13 - 
catastrophic disaster generated by natural geological phenomena, including inter 
alia: 
earthquake, 
tsunamis, 
volcanoes 
and 
landslides; 
and/or 
hydro-
meteorological phenomena, including inter alia: floods, hurricanes, El Niño/La 
Niña, and storms surge, as stated in article 137 of the Borrower’s Constitution, 
and regulated by: (i) Presidential Decree No. 005-88-SGMD, dated May 17, 1988 
and modified by Presidential Decrees No. 058-2001-PCM, dated May 22, 2001 
and No. 069-2005-PCM, dated September 14, 2005; (ii) Presidential Decree 
(Decreto Supremo) No. 001-A-2004-DE/SG, dated January 15, 2004; and (iii)  
any other legal instrument, compatible with the established procedures for the 
declaration of a State of Emergency, that the Borrower may introduce from time 
to time with the previous agreement of the Bank. 
 
11. 
“SUNASS”, means Superintendencia Nacional de Servicios de Saneamiento, the 
Borrower’s national superintendence of sanitation services. 
 
 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
… 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
… 
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:  
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for 
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per 
annum; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (e), that is applicable to an amount 
of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed 
Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of 
the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount; 
(b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable Rate based on a 
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread, and for 
purposes of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed 
Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon 
a Currency Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan 
 
 
- 15 - 
Balance pursuant, the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution 
Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
 
“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: 
(1) the Bank’s standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the 
Reference Rate, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans 
that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. In the 
case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, “Variable 
Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  
 
(f) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
 
 
“Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 
 
(g) 
A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
 
 
“Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the 
Bank pays the Withdrawal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
