CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7864-CN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Wuhan Second Urban Transport Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 11, 2010 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
June 
11,
2010,
between 
the 
PEOPLE’S 
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall, through Hubei Province, cause the Project Implementing 
Entity (Wuhan Municipality) to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
3
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Municipality of Wuhan to 
enhance mobility for passenger trips within and to the central area of Wuhan in an 
environmentally sustainable, integrated and safe manner.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Public Transport  
 
1. 
Strengthening public transport route rationalization and operations, including 
providing on-street priority to buses on key selected road corridors in Wuhan 
Municipality.  
 
2. 
Construction of public transport transfer terminals/interchanges to facilitate 
transfer from private to public transport modes and park and ride for non-
motorized vehicles and cars. 
Part B: Road Safety 
 
1. 
Improving traffic management, safety and mobility through, inter alia, traffic 
enforcement, education campaigns and engineering measures including 
installation of additional traffic signals for vehicles, and mid-block traffic signals 
for pedestrians, facilities for pedestrians and cyclists, and signs and markings in 
selected road corridors and the area within the Second Ring Road.  
 
Part C: Road Improvement 
 
1. 
Carrying out rehabilitation, upgrading, and construction of three key links of the 
urban road network of Wuhan Municipality, including: (i) rehabilitation of a 
selected section of Jiefang Dadao road and construction of an extension of said 
road; (ii) rehabilitation of ground roads along the Shuidong Section of the Second 
Ring Road and the concurrent ground road section under the approach bridge of 
the Erqi Yangtze River Bridge in Wuchang; and (iii) new construction of the 
elevated Shuidong Section of the Second Ring Road from Heping Dadao to 
Zhongbei Lu Extension.  
 
6
Part D: Travel Demand Management 
 
1. 
Carrying out a program for improving travel demand management through, inter 
alia, procuring equipment, and carrying out studies, training and capacity 
building measures for URBMC. 
 
Part E: Institutional Development 
 
1. 
Carrying out of studies and a comprehensive plan for strengthening the 
institutional capacity of Wuhan Municipality in developing an urban transport 
strategy, with particular focus on non-motorized transport, public transport 
integration, and transport issues related to urban-rural integration. 
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangement; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Financing Arrangement 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to Hubei the proceeds of the Loan under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and shall cause Hubei to make said 
proceeds available to the Project Implementing Entity (Wuhan Municipality) on 
the same terms and conditions which shall include the following:  
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars. 
 
(b) 
The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years. 
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
A Front-end Fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause Hubei: (a) to manage, operate, monitor, transfer and 
reconcile the proceeds of the Loan made available to it pursuant to paragraph 1 
above in accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) to take, all required actions, including provision of timely consents and 
approvals as may be necessary, to facilitate the utilization of said Loan proceeds 
and the implementation of the Project and, to enable the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity (Wuhan Municipality) to comply with their respective 
undertakings under this Agreement and the Project Agreement; and (c) to 
maintain all relevant records and documents related to the Loan and the Project 
and provide promptly such documents and records, including all other 
information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
8
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Annex to the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.   
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Reports, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the six (6) months period of each 
Project Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
9
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.   
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the 
Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 4 below, works costing less than $20,000,000 equivalent per contract 
and goods costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded under NCB procedures, subject to the additional 
provisions provided in paragraph 3 below.  
 
3.  
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on 
Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by  
Order No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 
1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
10
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or Wuhan Municipality, as the 
case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and 
the bidding documents shall specify the required form and 
amount of such security.    
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 
 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or Wuhan 
Municipality, as the case may be. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
11
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall not take place without the Bank’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
(xiii) 
The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be 
published in the national press or provincial press (based on 
criteria provided in clause (i) of this paragraph 3) or official 
gazette or a free and open access website and shall identify: (a) 
the name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as 
read out at bid opening; (c) the name and evaluated price of each 
evaluated bid; (d) the name of bidders whose bids were rejected 
and the reasons for their rejection; and (e) the name and offered 
price of the winning bidder, as well as the duration and summary 
scope of the awarded contract. 
 
(xiv) 
Wuhan Municipality shall have in place provisions for bidders to 
protest. 
 
4. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International and National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.   
12
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Quality and cost based selection 
(b) Quality based selection 
(c) 
Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(d) Single source selection 
(e) 
Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) all contracts 
for goods and civil works procured through International Competitive Bidding 
regardless of the contract value; (b) each contract for civil works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $12,000,000 or more; (c)  all contracts for goods procured 
through National Competitive Bidding estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more; (d) the first contract for each procurement method regardless 
of the contract value; (e) each contract for consultants’ services procured through 
the Single Source Selection method; and (f) each contract for consultants’ 
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for firms and  
$50,000 or more for individual consultants.  All other contracts shall be subject 
to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
2. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
terms of reference for each consultant procured under contracts for consultants’ 
services shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, 
inclusive of taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
13
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
(USD) 
Percentage of 
expenditures 
to be financed 
(1) 
Civil Works 
76,712,600 
50% 
(2) 
Goods 
19,432,600 
100% 
(3)  Consultants’ services 
3,604,800 
100% 
(4)  Front-end Fee 
250,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(5)  Premium on Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest rate Collar 
0
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL 
100,000,000 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent may be made 
for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2010 for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
14
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each March 15 and September 15 
Beginning September 15, 2015 
Through September 15, 2029 
3.33% 
On March 15, 2030 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
15
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
16
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
5. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated June, 2009 duly 
adopted by Wuhan Municipality, which Plan sets out the environmental 
protection measures in respect of the Project and related facilities, including 
access roads, construction camps, borrow pits, spoil disposal sites, resettlement 
sites, quarries and areas of temporary impact during construction, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of 
the Bank.   
 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity beginning on January 1 of a year and ending on  
December 31 of the same year. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
8. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto. 
 
17
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
11. 
“Project Financial Manual” means the manual dated February, 2010 adopted by 
Wuhan Municipality, which sets out the financial management policies and 
procedures to be followed in respect of Project implementation. 
 
12. 
“Project Implementing Entity” and the acronym “PIE” means the Wuhan 
Municipality. 
 
13. 
“Project Leading Group” means the group established by Wuhan Municipality, 
headed by the Mayor of Wuhan Municipality and composed of representatives of 
several Wuhan Municipality agencies, for the purpose of providing overall 
leadership, policy guidance and institutional coordination in Project preparation 
and implementation, and any successor thereto.   
 
14. 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated August, 2009 duly adopted by 
Wuhan Municipality and to be implemented by it for purposes of carrying out the 
Project, which plan sets out, inter alia: (a) the principles and procedures 
governing the acquisition of land required for the Project and related facilities, 
including access roads, construction camps, borrow pits, spoil disposal sites, 
resettlement sites and quarries; (b) actions and measures for the payment of 
compensation to Displaced Persons and for their resettlement and rehabilitation; 
and (c) reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said 
plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank; and such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to  
said plan.   
 
15. 
“Hubei” means the Borrower’s Hubei Province and any successor thereto.    
 
16. 
“URBMC” means the Urban Road and Bridge Monitoring Center of Wuhan 
Municipality. 
 
17. 
“WPMO” means the Wuhan Urban Construction Utilization of Foreign 
Investment Project Management Office established by Wuhan Municipality 
under WUCFMO for purposes of managing, coordinating and supervising the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
18
18. 
“WUCFMO” means the Wuhan Urban Construction Fund Management Office 
established by Wuhan Municipality by an order dated December, 2008 for the 
purpose of raising and managing financing for infrastructure projects in Wuhan 
Municipality. 
 
19. 
“Wuhan” means the Wuhan Municipality of Hubei, and any successor thereto.
 
