CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7971-BY 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Road Upgrading and Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 19, 2010 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 19, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of a one hundred and fifty million 
United States Dollars (US$150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date hundred and twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Borrower.  
 
3
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Council of Ministers 
House of Government 
Minsk, 220010 
11 Sovetskaya Street  
Republic of Belarus 
 
Facsimile: 
 
375 17 2226665 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Minsk, Republic of Belarus, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
 
By /s/ Ivan I. Scherbo 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ivan Velev 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to reduce transport costs for road users on the 
upgraded sections of the M5 Road, and to introduce electronic tolling in the Republic of 
Belarus as an efficient cost recovery mechanism. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A. Road Upgrading
Reconstruction of the existing 2 (two) lanes of the M5 Road Section and 
construction of 2 (two) additional lanes to the M5 Road Section, including construction 
of about 6 (six) two-level interchanges, seven overpasses, 4 (four) new bridges, and two 
pedestrian underpasses. 
 
Part B. Modernization of Road Tolling System
Supply and installation of a modern electronic road tolling system based on 
microwave technology on a 109 km section (from km 22 to km 131) of the M5 Road 
between Minsk and Bobrujsk, including supply of equipment such as (i) on-road tolling 
equipment, (ii) specialized vehicles and equipment for control purposes, (iii) a centralized 
data processing center, (iv) software and computers, and (v) on-board devices for 
vehicles.   
 
Part C. Road Sector Institutional Support 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of road sector institutions of the 
Borrower by providing technical assistance and training, including: 
 
(i) 
Training on the new electronic tolling system; 
 
(ii) 
Support to BELGIPRODOR for updating its economic evaluation tools 
for road projects, including training on HDM4 and procurement of 
software licenses; 
 
(iii) 
Support to improve the capacity of local institutions involved in 
supervision of road works  to carry out supervision under FIDIC rules;  
 
(iv) 
Technical assistance to BELAVTODOR in carrying out benchmarking 
and harmonization of Belarusian road construction, repair and 
6
maintenance standards and expenditure levels against and in accordance 
with European and international standards;  
 
(v) 
Support for carrying out the Project audits; and  
 
(vi) 
Other minor Project-related technical assistance, training and/or goods to 
support capacity building and Government institutions in the road sector.   
 
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
At all times during Project implementation, the Borrower shall maintain  the PIT 
with staff, resources, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to carry out 
the day-to-day management and implementation of the Project, including 
procurement, financial management, Project monitoring and evaluation, and 
reporting arrangements, as well as management of environmental and social 
issues under the Project.  The Borrower, through MoTC, shall assign a 
coordinator to provide technical and managerial assistance to PIT in the Project 
implementation. 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the POM, and shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provisions of the POM without prior 
written approval of the Bank. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the EMP, 
and shall take all measures, including policy and administrative measures that are 
required to enforce and implement the EMP.   
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that transfer of land, which is required for the 
right of way of the M5 Road Section to be upgraded under Part A of the Project, 
shall have been completed between relevant agencies of the Borrower in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower prior to 
commencement of any works on such land.  
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  
8
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III.
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
9
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding.   
 
Following additional procedures shall be applied in procurement under 
National Competitive Bidding: 
 
i. 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of 
bidder and/or origin of goods; 
ii. 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works 
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works projects; 
iii. 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding 
of whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government, unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law; 
iv. 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
v. 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
vi. 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase 
of bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the 
cost of producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
vii. 
bids may be rejected  where bid prices are substantially higher 
from the existing budget, in accordance with paras 2.61-2.63 of the 
Guidelines; 
viii. 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the 
Bank; 
ix. 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; 
x. 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification 
in the contract scope and conditions during implementation; 
xi.
the Bank shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either 
10 
 
indefinitely or for a stated period, to be awarded a contract 
financed by the Bank, if it at any time determines that the firm or 
individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by the Bank; 
and  
xii. 
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of 
the Loan shall include a provision requiring bidders, suppliers, 
contractors and sub-contractors to permit the Bank, at its request, 
to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission 
and performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank.  The deliberate 
and material violation by the bidder, supplier, or contractor or 
subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive 
practice. 
 
(b) Direct Contracting 
 
(c) Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality Based Selection 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
11 
 
Bank.
12 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
exclusive of Taxes  
 
(1) Goods, works, Training 
and consultants’ services  
 
149,625,000 
100% 
(2) Front-end Fee 
        375,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
150,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is November 30, 2014. 
 
13 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
2. 
 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
beginning February 15, 2016  
 
through August 15, 2025 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
14 
 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
15 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“BELAVTODOR” means the Roads Department of the MoTC. 
3. 
“BELGIPRODOR” means the state-owned road design institute founded in 1932. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the document prepared by 
MoTC, acceptable to the Bank and adopted by the Borrower on June 28, 2010 
and disclosed on July 15, 2010 setting forth a set of measures and actions to be 
carried out by the Borrower during the Project implementation in order to 
eliminate, mitigate or offset adverse environmental and social impacts.  
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
8. 
“FIDIC” means the International Federation of Consulting Engineers. 
 
9. 
“M5 Road” means the main road in the south-east of the Republic of Belarus 
between the city of Minsk and the border with Ukraine.   
 
10. 
“M5 Road Section” means a section of the M5 Road of about 53 km, including 
from km 65 to km 93 and from km 106 to km 131, between Minsk and Bobrujsk 
that will be upgraded and expanded under Part A of the Project. 
 
11. 
“MoTC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transportation and Communications, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“MinskAvtodor-Center” means a Republican Unitary Enterprise established by 
MoTC under Presidential Decree #241 of May 25, 2005 with responsibility for 
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of republican roads in Minsk Oblast. 
16 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementation Team” or “PIT” means a unit established by the 
Borrower at MinksAvtodor consisting of key personnel, including a team leader, 
procurement and financial management specialists, a lawyer and a translator, 
with responsibilities to carry out the Project implementation and day-to-day 
operation of the Project. 
 
15. 
“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the manual dated September 28, 
2010 and for use in day-to-day Project implementation, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior agreement. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 29, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
17. 
“Training” means expenditures incurred to finance the cost of training activities 
and workshops carried out under the Project, including costs of training 
materials, training providers, facilities, and related travel expenditures and 
allowances provided to the participants in such training and workshops. 
 
Section II. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
3. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or 
17 
 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
