CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7941-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Mumbai Urban Transport Project-2A) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 23, 2010  
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
July 
23, 
2010, 
between 
INDIA 
(“Borrower”)  
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred thirty million Dollars 
($430,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall, through the MOR, carry out the relevant activities under 
the Project and shall ensure that the relevant activities under the Project are 
carried out by Maharashtra and the MRVC, all in accordance with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreements. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
3
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: the 
Maharashtra-MRVC SFA and the MOU with the ICF have been executed. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary, or any Additional Secretary, 
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department 
of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable:  
 
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
 
953-31-66175  
91-11-23094075 
New Delhi 
 
FINE IN 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4
AGREED at Mumbai, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ Sudhakar Shukla 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jerome F. Chevallier 
 
Authorized Representative 
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the passenger carrying capacity, 
operational efficiency, level of comfort of, and the institutional capacity of entities 
involved in, the suburban rail system of Mumbai Metropolitan area. 
 
The Project consists of the following components: 
 
Component 1. EMU Rolling Stock Fleet Increase   
 
Acquisition of 864 additional EMU coaches (72 12-car trains), to be 
manufactured at the ICF.   
 
Component 2. DC to AC Conversion 
 
Conversion of three sections of CR located in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
(Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Mumbai (CSTM)-Thane, CSTM-Tilaknagar and 
Mahim-Vadala Road sections) from 1500V DC to 25KV AC traction, including: 
(i) modification of overhead catenaries; (ii) setting up of traction power sub-
stations at Sion, Chinchpokli, Wadala Road and Thane, along with switching 
stations; (iii) procurement of catenary maintenance equipment; (iv) modifications 
to signal and telecom systems; and (v) implementation of ancillary social, 
resettlement and environmental measures, if any.   
 
Component 3.  EMU Maintenance Facilities and Stabling Lines 
Construction of new stabling lines and improvement of existing EMU 
maintenance facilities (maintenance sheds and workshops) on CR and WR, and 
the expansion of the maintenance shed at Virar, to accommodate the EMU trains 
acquired under Component 1, including implementation of ancillary social, 
resettlement and environmental measures, if any.   
 
Component 4. Capacity Strengthening  
Carrying out of strategic studies and programs for the benefit of the MOR and 
MRVC, including studies related to sustainable expansion of Mumbai suburban 
rail services, development of the IR long-term strategy for suburban rail, 
improvement of the financial situation of the Mumbai suburban rail operation, 
improvement 
of 
passenger 
convenience 
and 
information, 
safety 
and 
environmental management of rail operations, increased operational efficiency, 
and project management, implementation and monitoring. 
 
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation, Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the relevant activities under the Project through the 
MOR, and shall ensure the relevant activities under the Project are carried out by 
Maharashtra, the MRVC. 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Implementation Manual, SMF, and EMPs, and in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, and shall ensure that the 
Implementation Manual, SMF, and EMPs are not materially revised, amended, 
waived, or abrogated without the prior consent of the Bank.  If any provision of 
this Agreement is inconsistent with a provision of the Implementation Manual, 
SMF, or EMPs, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
3. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) make fifty 
percent (50%) of the proceeds of the Loan available to Maharashtra in 
accordance with Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance 
to the States of India, for the purpose of Maharashtra making such funds 
available to MRVC, under the terms and conditions set out in the Maharashtra-
MRVC SFA; and (b) acting through the MOR, make fifty percent (50%) of the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the MRVC, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set out in the MOR-MRVC MOU.  The Borrower shall, acting 
through the MOR, exercise its rights under the MOR-MRVC MOU in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, abrogate, or waive any of the terms or provisions of the 
MOR-MRVC MOU. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entities implement the 
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the respective 
Project Agreements. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.   
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower, through the MOR, shall, and shall ensure that Maharashtra and 
the MRVC shall, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project, and cause the 
7
Project Reports to be prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 
of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (2) Financial Year quarter, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.   
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Financial Year, 
commencing with the Financial Year in which the first withdrawal under the 
Project was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
 
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each Financial Year quarter, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project, covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General 
1. 
Goods, Including Supply and Installation.
All goods required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3. 
Definitions.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
8
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, and the additional provisions agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank 
(b)   Shopping 
(c)   Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in  
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)    Quality-Based Selection 
(b)    Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)    Least Cost Selection 
(d)   Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)   Single-Source Selection 
(f)    Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g)   Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
9
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by  
the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, including Supply and 
Installation: 
 
(a) under Component 1 of the 
Project   
 
(b) under Component 2 of the 
Project 
 
(c) under Component 4 of the 
Project 
 
355,696,000 
 
55,155,000 
 
1,513,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
10 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(2)  Consultants’ Services, and Training 
12,894,000 
100% 
 
(3) Front-end Fee 
1,075,000 
 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
(4) Premia for Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar 
-0- 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 
(5) Unallocated 
3,667,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
430,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $86,000,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2010, for 
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1)(b), (1)(c), and (2). 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 15, 2015. 
 
11 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning December 15, 2015  
 
Through June 15, 2040 
 
2% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
12 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
13 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“AC” means alternating current. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“CR” means Central Railway under the MOR, or any successor or successors 
thereto. 
6. 
“DC” means direct current. 
7. 
“EMPs” means the generic and component-specific environmental management 
plans approved by the MRVC, and satisfactory to the Bank, describing the 
environmental management, mitigation, monitoring, reporting and institutional 
measures to be undertaken by the MRVC during the Project, as such plans may 
be revised from time to time with the prior no objection of the Bank. 
8. 
“EMU” means electric multiple unit. 
9. 
“Executing Agency” means the MMRDA, WR, CR, ICF, or RDSO, and 
“Executing Agencies” means two or more of the above entities. 
 
10. 
“Financial Year” means the Borrower’s and Project Implementing Entities’ 
financial year beginning April 1 and ending March 31 the following year.  
 
11. 
“GAAP” means the governance and accountability action plan included in the 
Implementation Manual, which sets out the Project specific key actions to 
strengthen governance, transparency, and accountability, as such plan may be 
amended from time to time with the prior no objection of the Bank. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
14 
 
13. 
“ICF” means Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, India, an entity under the MOR, 
or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
14. 
“Implementation Manual” means the manual dated April 30, 2010, which sets 
out the terms, conditions, and procedures for Project implementation, and which 
includes the Procurement Plan, and GAAP, as such manual may be revised from 
time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.  
 
15. 
“IR” means Indian Railways, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
16. 
“Maharashtra” means the State of Maharashtra of the Borrower, or any successor 
or successors thereto.  
 
17. 
“Maharashtra-MRVC SFA” means the subsidiary financing agreement to be 
entered into between the Government of Maharashtra and MRVC, and 
satisfactory to the Bank, describing Maharashtra and MRVC rights and 
responsibilities under the Project, as such agreement may be revised from time to 
time, with the prior no objection of the Bank. 
 
18. 
“MMRDA” means the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, or 
any successor or successors thereto. 
 
19. 
“MOR” means the Ministry of Railways of India, or any successor or successors 
thereto. 
 
20. 
“MOR-MRVC MOU” means the memorandum of understanding entered 
between the MOR and MRVC, dated May 7, 2010, describing MRVC rights and 
responsibilities under the Project, as such memorandum may be revised from 
time to time, with the prior no objection of the Bank. 
 
21. 
“MOU” means a memorandum of understanding entered between the MRVC and 
any of the Executing Agencies, and the “MOUs” means two or more of such 
memoranda, as such memoranda may be revised from time to time, with the prior 
no objection of the Bank. 
 
22. 
“MRVC” means the Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation Limited, a public 
sector undertaking jointly owned by the Borrower and Maharashtra, incorporated 
under the Borrower’s Companies Act, 1956, or any successor or successors 
thereto. 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
15 
 
24. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, dated  
April 30, 2010, included in the Implementation Manual, and referred to in 
paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
25. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Maharashtra or the MRVC, and “Project 
Implementing Entities” means Maharashtra and the MRVC. 
 
26. 
“RDSO” means Research, Design and Standards Organization, Lucknow, India, 
of the MOR, or any successor or successors thereto. 
27. 
“R&R Policy” means the resettlement and rehabilitation policy adopted by 
Maharashtra on March 12, 1997 in connection with the Mumbai Urban Transport 
Project, setting forth the policies and procedures addressing adverse temporary or 
permanent social impacts resulting, or likely to result from, the carrying out of 
the Project, as such policy may be revised from time to time with the prior no 
objection of the Bank. 
28. 
“SMF” means the social management framework adopted by the MRVC and 
detailed under the R&R Policy, and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the 
rules and procedures for carrying out any social, resettlement and rehabilitation 
activities under the Project, including identification, assessment and mitigation of 
potential environmental and social impacts arising from the Project, carrying out 
consultations, processing and redressing grievances, monitoring related impacts, 
and, if required, limited resettlement and rehabilitation action plans and other 
development and entitlement plans for people adversely affected as result of 
Project implementation, as such framework may be revised from time to time, 
with the prior no objection of the Bank. 
 
29. 
“Training” means reasonable and necessary costs of training related to Project 
implementation, including the fees of educational or other institutions that 
provide training, costs related to attendance or organization of conferences, 
seminars, workshops, and study tours, and the trainees’ cost of travel, boarding, 
lodging and per diem allowances.  
 
30. 
“WR” means Western Railway under the MOR, or any successor or successors 
thereto. 
 
16 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
. . . .
(l) 
Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
2. 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date  
(as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted 
by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified 
in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
