 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7921-TN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
 
 
 
(Second Natural Resources Management Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
Dated October 7, 2010  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
 
LOAN NUMBER 7921-TN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
Agreement dated October 7, 2010, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty six million and one hundred 
thousand US Dollars (US$36,100,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15, and July 15 in each year. 
 
 
- 2 - 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MAWRF and MESD in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower has adopted and submitted the POPM to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Development and International 
Cooperation.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
1069 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
Cable Address  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile:  
 
MCIIE  
 
18060  
 
216-71-351666/ 
216-71-799069 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
Telex:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
 
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
 
 
By /s/Mohamed Nouri Jouini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
 
 
 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ Shamshad Akhtar 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
- 5 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve living conditions for rural communities 
in the Project Area inter alia by fostering increased access to basic infrastructure and 
services, sustainable increase of income, improved natural resource management 
practices and promotion of an integrated approach to community-based development 
among various stakeholders. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Financing for Execution of Investments Selected under the PDP Framework.  
 
Carrying out of selected investments encompassing works, equipment, tools, 
materials, consultants’ services and training, to sustain development activities in 
the following areas: 
 
1. 
Construction and rehabilitation of water harvesting infrastructure, establishment 
and rehabilitation of public and private irrigation schemes; and construction of 
drinking water supply systems. 
 
2. 
Construction and rehabilitation of rural feeder roads. 
 
3. 
Development of sustainable agricultural production systems through improved 
delivery of agricultural extension and advisory services, improvement of 
pastoral, sylvo-pastoral, and forested areas, dissemination of climate-resilient 
farming practices, diversification of rural economic activities, and promotion of 
efficient water and soil conservation practices. 
 
Part B:  Development and Promotion of Use of Treated Wastewater in Agriculture 
1. 
Carrying out of: (a) a feasibility study aimed at assessing, costing and testing the 
options to maximize benefits to be derived from the use of treated wastewater 
produced from the Greater Tunis area and transferred to rural areas; and (b) an 
assessment of degraded lands susceptible to being improved through the use of 
treated wastewater for agricultural purposes, and for adapting and mitigating the 
impact of climate change. 
 
2. 
Development of pilot schemes to demonstrate the value and benefits to be 
derived from the use of treated wastewater to preserve and intensify agricultural 
production systems on degraded lands. 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
Part C:  Institutional Strengthening and Sensitization to Environmental Issues and IPA 
Methodology  
 
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of institutions involved in implementation of the 
Project at the national, regional and local levels including RCADs and ADGs 
through the provision of logistical support, technical advisory services and 
adequate training programs. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the CCU’s capacity to manage the Project efficiently including 
ensuring adequate monitoring and evaluation, and compliance with all safeguard 
measures related to implementation of the environment and social protection 
framework. 
 
3. 
Development and execution of a communication and sensitization action plan 
aimed at raising awareness on environmental themes and IPA methodology.  
 
- 7 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure overall Project coordination through the CCU; 
and (b) maintain the CCU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Bank and with staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications and experience are 
at all times satisfactory to the Bank.   
 
2. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the POPM and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision 
of the POPM without prior approval by the Bank. 
 
3. 
By December 31, 2010, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain an 
adequate monitoring and evaluation system designed to monitor progress 
achieved in the execution of the Project. 
 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Project to be carried out in conformity with the 
provisions of the SDR, the FDESP and the RPF; (ii) inform the Bank of any 
developments in the Environmental Legislation applicable to, and that may affect 
the implementation of, the Project; and (iii) not change, modify or otherwise 
amend said SDR, FDESP and RPF in a manner inconsistent with the Project, 
without prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause MAWRF to ensure that: (i) prior to the carrying out of 
any Project activities not identified, assessed, nor included in the FDESP, such 
activities shall be subject to an Environmental Assessment, under terms of 
reference and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) mitigating 
and monitoring measures for impacts of said activities are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the SDR and the FDESP. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, in the context of the reports referred to in Section II.A of 
this Schedule, cause to be prepared and provided to the Bank for its review 
 
- 8 - 
 
reports on the application of the provisions of the FDESP to Project activities. 
The Bank may provide comments as appropriate on said reports, notably to agree 
with the MAWRF on remedial actions to be taken by the MAWRF to achieve 
compliance with the SDR, and the FDESP and the RPF. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that any activity under Part A and Part B.2 of the 
Project, requiring land acquisition is carried out in accordance with the RPF. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
 
A. 
Project Reports   
 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
 
A. 
General 
 
1. 
Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I 
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
provisions: 
 
(i) 
The bidding document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award 
criteria and bidder qualification criteria; 
(ii) 
Any bidder registered in an eligible country, as defined in 
paragraphs 1.6 to 1.8 of the Procurement Guidelines will be eligible 
to bid; therefore no restriction based on nationality of bidders or 
origin of goods shall apply and foreign bidders shall not be subject 
to any unjustified requirement which will affect their ability to bid; 
(iii) Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
participate only if they can establish that they (a) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (b) operate under commercial law, and (c) 
are independent from contracting entity; 
(iv) Bidders will be allowed to deliver their bids by mail or by hand 
before the expiration of the deadline for submitting bids; 
(v) 
Technical and financial envelopes are submitted together and 
opened in public, simultaneously during a unique session open to 
the public for works, goods and non-consulting services; amounts 
shall be read aloud during the public session; bidders or their 
 
- 10 - 
 
representatives are authorized to attend the bid opening session. The 
date, time and place for bid opening shall be announced in the 
invitation to bid; these date and time shall be the same as for the 
deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter; 
(vi) Bids are evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed in the 
bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms and contracts 
are awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the lowest 
evaluated responsive bid, and price shall not be negotiated with the 
lowest evaluated bidder except under the provisions stated in 
paragraph 2.63 of the Procurement Guidelines; 
(vii) Procedures will include the publication of the evaluation results, the 
contract award and provision for bidders to protest; 
(viii) If foreign firms wish to participate, they shall be allowed to do so 
and no provision for preferential treatment of national firms or 
mandatory association with a national firm or prior registration in 
the country of the Borrower shall be applied; 
(ix) Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding 
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding 
procurement must be submitted to and found acceptable by the 
Bank; and  
(x) 
Each bidding document and contract for goods and works to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that the 
supplier, contractor and subcontractor shall permit the Bank, at its 
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid 
submission and performance of the contract, and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or 
subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
 
- 11 - 
 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-source Selection 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
General 
  
 1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
- 12 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in US 
Dollars) 
 
 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(exclusive of Taxes)  
 
(1) Works under Parts A 
and B of the Project 
 
15,000,000 
70% 
 
(2)  Goods, consultants’ 
services and training  
 
17,500,000 
100% 
(3) Front-end Fee 
90,250 Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
(4) Unallocated  
 
3,509,750  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
36,100,000  
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
January 15, 2016 
 
3.5 
July 15, 2016 
 
4 
January 15, 2017 
 
0 
July 15, 2017 
 
0 
January 15, 2018 
 
0 
July 15, 2018 
 
2.5 
January 15, 2019 
 
4 
July 15, 2019 
 
3 
January 15, 2020 
 
0 
July 15, 2020 
 
0 
January 15, 2021 
 
2.5 
July 15, 2021 
 
2.5 
January 15, 2022 
 
3 
July 15, 2022 
 
0 
January 15, 2023 
 
3 
July 15, 2023 
 
2.5 
January 15, 2024 
 
3 
July 15, 2024 
 
4 
January 15, 2025 
 
3.5 
July 15, 2025 
 
4 
 
- 14 - 
 
January 15, 2026 
 
4 
July 15, 2026 
 
3 
January 15, 2027 
 
3 
July 15, 2027 
 
0 
January 15, 2028 
 
1 
July 15, 2028 
 
3 
January 15, 2029 
 
3 
July 15, 2029 
 
3 
January 15, 2030 
 
0 
July 15, 2030 
 
0 
January 15, 2031 
 
1.5 
July 15, 2031 
 
2 
January 15, 2032 
 
0 
July 15, 2032 
 
1 
January 15, 2033 
 
0 
July 15, 2033 
 
0 
January 15, 2034 
 
2.5 
July 15, 2034 
 
2 
January 15, 2035 
 
2 
July 15, 2035 
 
2 
January 15, 2036 
 
3 
July 15, 2036 
 
2.5 
January 15, 2037 
 
2.5 
July 15, 2037 
 
3 
January 15, 2038 
 
2 
July 15, 2038 
 
2 
January 15, 2039 
 
2.5 
July 15, 2039 
 
2.5 
January 15, 2040 
 
2 
 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
 
- 15 - 
 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
- 16 - 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“CCU” means the Central Coordination Unit established within the DFIPO. 
5. 
“DFIPO” means the Borrower’s General Directorate of Finance, Investment and 
Professional Organizations within MAWRF. 
6. 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means an environmental assessment, 
acceptable to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the 
Borrowers' Environmental Legislation described in the SDR and the FDESP, 
evaluating the environmental impact of Project activities and setting forth the 
mitigating, institutional, and monitoring measures for activities undertaken under 
the Project. 
7. 
“Environmental Legislation” means the Borrower’s set of laws, decrees, arrêtés  
or decisions described in the SDR and the FDESP, including, but not limited to 
legislation and relevant implementing regulations applicable to environmental 
impact assessments, and legislation governing air, water and soil protection and 
emission standards, and all secondary legislation related thereto. 
8. 
“FDESP” means the Borrower’s Framework Document for Environmental and 
Social Protection or "FDESP", dated December 2009, attached to the SDR and 
describing: (i) the overall legal and regulatory framework applicable to the 
Project; (ii) the environmental analysis of the Project components; (iii) the EA 
processes applied by MAWRF, including implementation of ESMPs; (iv) 
environmental supervision and monitoring; (v) training and capacity 
strengthening; and (vi) budget, all as they shall be applied to Project activities 
consistent with the Environmental Legislation and the same as they may be 
amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
 
- 17 - 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
10. 
“GEF Grant Agreement” means the GEF Grant Agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient of the GEF Grant and the Bank, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time. 
11. 
“Integrated Participatory Approach Methodology” or “IPA” means the 
methodology to be used to formulate and to implement the PDPs referred to 
under Part A of the Project.     
12. 
“MAWRF” means the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources, and Fisheries 
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
13. 
“MESD” means the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development of 
the Borrower or any successor thereto.  
14. 
“PDP” or “Participatory Development Plan” means the participatory 
development plan prepared by a community association with assistance and 
advisory services provided by community workers and other relevant staff from 
the concerned RCAD. 
15. 
“POPM” or “Project Operational Procedures Manual” means the manual 
describing 
the 
implementation, 
financial 
management, 
procurement, 
disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting arrangements for the 
Project, and referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May15, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
18. 
“Project Area” means the Governorates of Jendouba, Kasserine and Medenine, 
respectively, on the territory of which the Project activities will be carried out.  
19. 
“RCAD” means Regional Commissariat for Agriculture Development, an 
administrative public institution (“établissement public à caractère administratif”) 
 
- 18 - 
 
established and operated pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 89-44 dated March 
8, 1989, and its related implementing decrees. 
20. 
“RPF” mean the Borrower’s policy framework adopted in December 2009, 
providing 
procedures 
and 
guidelines 
for 
the 
preparation, 
adoption, 
implementation and monitoring of a land acquisition plan or plans, as said RPF 
may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
21. 
“Safeguard Diagnostic Review" and "SDR" mean the report dated December 
2009 prepared by the Bank in collaboration with the Borrower, for the purpose of 
using the Borrower’s environmental assessment system for the preparation and 
implementation of the Project and disclosed in Tunisia on February 5, 2010 and 
on the World Bank InfoShop on February 16, 2010. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
